# Wwdc2025 364

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Welcome to WWDC25There's so much to dive into at WWDC25. Here's a quick guide to help get you started.ResourcesHD VideoSD Video

There's so much to dive into at WWDC25. Here's a quick guide to help get you started.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Search this video…Hello developers and welcome to WWDC25.This year we have more than 100 sessions on everything from the new design,Apple Intelligence, Xcode, Swift, SwiftUI, Metal, Gaming and more.Now I can play my RealityKit game on Apple TV at home.You can try Code-along sessions to work line by line with an Apple engineer.Let's see if the first solution would work for our case.Check out Foundation sessions to brush up on key design and technical principles.We are so excited to get the privilege of introducing youto the new Foundation Models framework.And get the details on all the new developer announcementsin the Platforms State of the Union.Here's a quick peek at what's in store.This year introduces our broadest design update ever.A beautiful new design that scales across apps and platforms,all while maintaining the experiences people rely on every day.It's built with Liquid Glass, a new material that combinesthe optical qualities of glass with a sense of fluidityto deliver a more expressive experience and bring more focus to your content.Nice!Updates like this don't happen every day,and we're excited to see your apps come to life with this new design.Yeah, that was a lot.This year, any app can tap into the intelligence that's powerful,fast, built with privacy,and available even when the user is offlinethrough direct access to the on-device large language modelat the core of Apple Intelligence.That was generated entirely on-device.Pretty amazing.There's so much more to explore this year, and each session now has a written summarythat highlights the essentials so you can quickly get to details,docs, and sample code.Did you know that you can copy code right from a session into Xcode?Awesome sauce!Need some advice or have a question?We've got you!Request a one-on-one lab appointment to speak directlywith an expert about your projects.Mad skills, man.Or join new online group labs hosted by Apple Engineers and Designersto dive deep into the biggest announcements.You can ask and upvote questions.- It's okay if I ask questions? - Absolutely!Or just hang out, listen, and learn.Rock on!This week and beyond, you can find answers in the Apple Developer Forumsand stay connected with us through Meet with Apple Developer ActivitiesOh wow!Held online and in person all over the world.Woo! Woo woo!Happy WW and we'll see you out there.Send it!

Hello developers and welcome to WWDC25.

This year we have more than 100 sessions on everything from the new design,Apple Intelligence, Xcode, Swift, SwiftUI, Metal, Gaming and more.Now I can play my RealityKit game on Apple TV at home.You can try Code-along sessions to work line by line with an Apple engineer.Let's see if the first solution would work for our case.Check out Foundation sessions to brush up on key design and technical principles.

We are so excited to get the privilege of introducing youto the new Foundation Models framework.

And get the details on all the new developer announcementsin the Platforms State of the Union.

Here's a quick peek at what's in store.

This year introduces our broadest design update ever.A beautiful new design that scales across apps and platforms,all while maintaining the experiences people rely on every day.

It's built with Liquid Glass, a new material that combinesthe optical qualities of glass with a sense of fluidityto deliver a more expressive experience and bring more focus to your content.

Nice!Updates like this don't happen every day,and we're excited to see your apps come to life with this new design.Yeah, that was a lot.This year, any app can tap into the intelligence that's powerful,fast, built with privacy,and available even when the user is offlinethrough direct access to the on-device large language modelat the core of Apple Intelligence.

That was generated entirely on-device.

Pretty amazing.

There's so much more to explore this year, and each session now has a written summarythat highlights the essentials so you can quickly get to details,docs, and sample code.

Did you know that you can copy code right from a session into Xcode?Awesome sauce!Need some advice or have a question?We've got you!Request a one-on-one lab appointment to speak directlywith an expert about your projects.Mad skills, man.

Or join new online group labs hosted by Apple Engineers and Designersto dive deep into the biggest announcements.You can ask and upvote questions.- It's okay if I ask questions? - Absolutely!Or just hang out, listen, and learn.Rock on!This week and beyond, you can find answers in the Apple Developer Forumsand stay connected with us through Meet with Apple Developer ActivitiesOh wow!Held online and in person all over the world.

Woo! Woo woo!Happy WW and we'll see you out there.Send it!

## Code Samples

