# Wwdc2021 10325

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Friday@WWDC21It's time to say adieu to the week, and what a week it was! Tune in as we recap Friday and close out WWDC21.ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC21Design for Safari 15Meet async/await in SwiftMeet CloudKit ConsoleMeet Group ActivitiesMeet Xcode Cloud

It's time to say adieu to the week, and what a week it was! Tune in as we recap Friday and close out WWDC21.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Design for Safari 15

Meet async/await in Swift

Meet CloudKit Console

Meet Group Activities

Meet Xcode Cloud

Search this video…Phew!What a ride we’ve had at Dub Dub.Here’s your recap!♪ "Better Days (Instrumental)" by DARKMINDS ♪We learned how to create apps for research and care...- We can provide educational text from the clinicians.- This cutting-edge research is going to help so many people.-...And discovered how to design for Safari 15’s tab barand incorporate visual intelligence.- Well that's what we've done in Safari 15.- Beautiful!We also explored how to build Mac apps with SwiftUI...- These APIs and concepts apply to all platforms.- ...and said hello to CloudKit Console.- The next time I launch the console,it will bring me straight to the last container I visited.- Wow! How is it Friday already?There was just so much:async/await, Xcode Cloud, SharePlay, Metal,Mindful Cooldowns for coding, watchOS,Tiera Fletcher’s amazing talk,Xcode, gaming, accessibility...We hope you had a great weekand cannot wait to see what you make this fall.Ciao!♪

Phew!What a ride we’ve had at Dub Dub.

Here’s your recap!♪ "Better Days (Instrumental)" by DARKMINDS ♪We learned how to create apps for research and care...

- We can provide educational text from the clinicians.

- This cutting-edge research is going to help so many people.

-...And discovered how to design for Safari 15’s tab barand incorporate visual intelligence.

- Well that's what we've done in Safari 15.

- Beautiful!We also explored how to build Mac apps with SwiftUI...

- These APIs and concepts apply to all platforms.

- ...and said hello to CloudKit Console.

- The next time I launch the console,it will bring me straight to the last container I visited.

- Wow! How is it Friday already?There was just so much:async/await, Xcode Cloud, SharePlay, Metal,Mindful Cooldowns for coding, watchOS,Tiera Fletcher’s amazing talk,Xcode, gaming, accessibility...We hope you had a great weekand cannot wait to see what you make this fall.

Ciao!♪

## Code Samples

