# Wwdc2021 10159

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Explore Core Image kernel improvementsDiscover how you can add Core Image kernels written in the Metal Shading Language into your app. We'll explore how you can use Xcode rules and naming conventions for Core Image kernels written in the Metal Shading Language, and help you make sense of Metal's Stitchable functions and dynamic library features to benefit Core Image kernels.ResourcesCore ImageHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC21Capture and process ProRAW imagesWWDC20Build Metal-based Core Image kernels with XcodeDiscover Core Image debugging techniquesOptimize the Core Image pipeline for your video app

Discover how you can add Core Image kernels written in the Metal Shading Language into your app. We'll explore how you can use Xcode rules and naming conventions for Core Image kernels written in the Metal Shading Language, and help you make sense of Metal's Stitchable functions and dynamic library features to benefit Core Image kernels.

Core Image

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Capture and process ProRAW images

Build Metal-based Core Image kernels with Xcode

Discover Core Image debugging techniques

Optimize the Core Image pipeline for your video app

Search this video…♪ Bass music playing ♪David Hayward: Welcome, everyone.My name is David Hayward.I'm a senior engineer on the Core Image team,and I'll be giving a short presentation todaythat will show you the latest best practiceswhen adding custom Metal Core Image kernelsto your Xcode project.In this presentation, I will discussthe general benefits of writing custom CIKernels in Metal.Next, I will introduce two recommended waysthat Metal CIKernels can be built.And then I will demonstrate step by stephow to add these to your project.First off, let's review the benefitsof writing custom CIKernels in Metal.By writing CIKernels in Metal,you will get access to Core Image featuressuch as automatic tiling and concatenation.It will improve your app's performanceby shifting some of the time to compile kernelsfrom runtime to when your app is built.And doing so will give your kernels accessto high-performance features such as gather-reads,group-writes, and half-float math.Last but not least, it will make your life as a developer easierby syntax highlighting as you typeand inline error checking when you build.So with that for motivation,I will now show you step by stephow to add Metal Core Image kernels to your application.There are now two recommended waysto add CIKernels to your project,and I will describe both methods in detail.I will refer to this as the extern methodbecause it requires the kernel functions to be specifiedas extern "C" and built using custom build flags.The second method is new in iOS 15 and macOS 12.I will refer to this as the stitchable methodbecause it requires the kernel functionsto be in attributed as stitchable.Its implementation uses Metal Dynamic Libraries.In both methods, there are four general steps to follow.First, is to configure your project appropriately.Second, is to add Metal CIKernel source files to your project.Third, is to write your Metal CIKernel code.And fourth is to write Swift or Objective-C codeto initialize and apply your kernelto create a new CIImage.First, let's describe these four stepswhen using extern CIKernels,starting with project configuration.Unlike conventional Metal compute and graphics shaders,this Core Image Metal code needs to be compiled and linkedwith special flags.I recommend adding two custom build rulesto your project targetswhich will make using these flags automatic.First, you will go to the project's target settingsand add a build rule for files that end in .ci.metal.For files with this extension,this rule will run a one-line scriptthat calls the Metal compilerwith the required -fcikernel flag.This build rule will produce an output binarythat will end in .ci.air.Next, you will add a second build rulefor files that end in .ci.air.For files with this extension,this rule will run a one-line scriptthat calls the Metal linker with the required -cikernel flag.This build rule will produce an outputin your app's Resources directorythat will end in .ci.metallib.Now that you have added the custom build rules,all you need to do is add .ci.metal sourcesto your project.To do that, select from the File menuthat you want to add a new Metal fileand then give that new file a name ends in .ci.metal.The next step is to write your CIKernelin the Metal source file.First, at the top of the source,you will include the CoreImage.h headerso that you get access to all the classesthat Core Image provides.The kernel must be specified as extern "C"to be recognized by Core Image.The content of your actual kernel implementationis up to your imagination.For one example of what you can do,I recommend that you watch our WWDC 2020 presentationon "HDR editing and playback using AVFoundation."The final step is to add Swift code to load your kerneland apply it to create a new image.Kernels are typically used in a CIFilter subclasswhich will have properties such as an inputImageand other input parameters.I recommend that your filter instantiate its CIKernel objectinto a static property.This way, the work of loading the metallib resourceis done only once when it is first needed.Because of the custom build rule I described earlier,you will need to specify a resource URLwith the same name as your sourceand an extension of .ci.metallib.Lastly, a CIFilter subclass must overridethe outputImage property.In the getter,you will take the kernel from a static propertyand use its apply method to create a new imagebased on the input properties.So that fully describes the processof building extern CIKernels.Let's now describe the new processof building stitchable CIKernels.With the stitchable method,only one setting change is neededto configure your Xcode project.This setting will tell the Metal linkerto link against the Core Image framework.To do this, just go to the project's target settingand add a build setting for Other Metal Linker Flagswith the value "-framework CoreImage".Because stitchable CIKernelsdon't require custom build rules,you can simply add .metal sources to your projectwithout any special suffix.You can add kernels in either one or several sources files.By default, Xcode will build all of them into one .metallib resource.The next step is to write your CIKernelin the Metal source file.As before, you will include the CoreImage.h headerto get access to the Core Image classes.But with this method, the kernel must be attributedas ] to be recognized by Core Image.Once again,the final step is to add Swift code to load your kernel,and apply it to create a new image.The only change with stitchable CIKernelsis that you can simply load the resourcewith the standard name of default.metallib.That concludes the process of building stitchable CIKernels.It is worth mentioning some of the benefitsof using this method.Stitchable kernels can link against other Metal libraries.And they now support input parametersthat are integer and unsigned integer vector types.Another niche benefit is that stitchable kernelscan be compiled from source at runtime.Most applications should not use this featurebecause it will incur longer initial compile times.That said, there are some classes of applicationsthat may benefit from this flexibility.There is one last topic to cover in this presentation.The stitchable CIKernel implementationdepends on two important Metal features.The first is the new Metal Shading Language version 2.4.Among other things,this versions supports the ] attributethat causes the compiler to associate additional metadatawith each function.The second is the Metal Dynamic Libraries featurethat is used so that your kernelscan link against the Core Image Metal classes.For more details on these Metal features, be sure to watch the"Discover Compilation Workflows in Metal" presentation.Be aware, though, that Metal Dynamic Librariesare only supported on some graphics devices,specifically iPhone and iPad with A11 and later,all Macs with Apple silicon,and Intel Macs with AMD Navi and Vega GPUs.Your application should check the Metal device propertysupportsDynamicLibrariesbefore using stitchable CIKernels.So that concludes my step-by-step descriptionof how to use the two recommended waysto add Metal CIKernels to your application.For each method, I've covered how to configure your project,write the kernel source,and initialize the kernel objects.I hope that this allows you to add great visual effectsto your app's images and videos.Thank you and enjoy the rest of WWDC 2021!♪

♪ Bass music playing ♪David Hayward: Welcome, everyone.

My name is David Hayward.

I'm a senior engineer on the Core Image team,and I'll be giving a short presentation todaythat will show you the latest best practiceswhen adding custom Metal Core Image kernelsto your Xcode project.

In this presentation, I will discussthe general benefits of writing custom CIKernels in Metal.

Next, I will introduce two recommended waysthat Metal CIKernels can be built.

And then I will demonstrate step by stephow to add these to your project.

First off, let's review the benefitsof writing custom CIKernels in Metal.

By writing CIKernels in Metal,you will get access to Core Image featuressuch as automatic tiling and concatenation.

It will improve your app's performanceby shifting some of the time to compile kernelsfrom runtime to when your app is built.

And doing so will give your kernels accessto high-performance features such as gather-reads,group-writes, and half-float math.

Last but not least, it will make your life as a developer easierby syntax highlighting as you typeand inline error checking when you build.

So with that for motivation,I will now show you step by stephow to add Metal Core Image kernels to your application.

There are now two recommended waysto add CIKernels to your project,and I will describe both methods in detail.

I will refer to this as the extern methodbecause it requires the kernel functions to be specifiedas extern "C" and built using custom build flags.

The second method is new in iOS 15 and macOS 12.

I will refer to this as the stitchable methodbecause it requires the kernel functionsto be in attributed as stitchable.

Its implementation uses Metal Dynamic Libraries.

In both methods, there are four general steps to follow.

First, is to configure your project appropriately.

Second, is to add Metal CIKernel source files to your project.

Third, is to write your Metal CIKernel code.

And fourth is to write Swift or Objective-C codeto initialize and apply your kernelto create a new CIImage.

First, let's describe these four stepswhen using extern CIKernels,starting with project configuration.

Unlike conventional Metal compute and graphics shaders,this Core Image Metal code needs to be compiled and linkedwith special flags.

I recommend adding two custom build rulesto your project targetswhich will make using these flags automatic.

First, you will go to the project's target settingsand add a build rule for files that end in .ci.metal.

For files with this extension,this rule will run a one-line scriptthat calls the Metal compilerwith the required -fcikernel flag.

This build rule will produce an output binarythat will end in .ci.air.

Next, you will add a second build rulefor files that end in .ci.air.

For files with this extension,this rule will run a one-line scriptthat calls the Metal linker with the required -cikernel flag.

This build rule will produce an outputin your app's Resources directorythat will end in .ci.metallib.

Now that you have added the custom build rules,all you need to do is add .ci.metal sourcesto your project.

To do that, select from the File menuthat you want to add a new Metal fileand then give that new file a name ends in .ci.metal.

The next step is to write your CIKernelin the Metal source file.

First, at the top of the source,you will include the CoreImage.h headerso that you get access to all the classesthat Core Image provides.

The kernel must be specified as extern "C"to be recognized by Core Image.

The content of your actual kernel implementationis up to your imagination.

For one example of what you can do,I recommend that you watch our WWDC 2020 presentationon "HDR editing and playback using AVFoundation."The final step is to add Swift code to load your kerneland apply it to create a new image.

Kernels are typically used in a CIFilter subclasswhich will have properties such as an inputImageand other input parameters.

I recommend that your filter instantiate its CIKernel objectinto a static property.

This way, the work of loading the metallib resourceis done only once when it is first needed.

Because of the custom build rule I described earlier,you will need to specify a resource URLwith the same name as your sourceand an extension of .ci.metallib.

Lastly, a CIFilter subclass must overridethe outputImage property.

In the getter,you will take the kernel from a static propertyand use its apply method to create a new imagebased on the input properties.

So that fully describes the processof building extern CIKernels.

Let's now describe the new processof building stitchable CIKernels.

With the stitchable method,only one setting change is neededto configure your Xcode project.

This setting will tell the Metal linkerto link against the Core Image framework.

To do this, just go to the project's target settingand add a build setting for Other Metal Linker Flagswith the value "-framework CoreImage".

Because stitchable CIKernelsdon't require custom build rules,you can simply add .metal sources to your projectwithout any special suffix.

You can add kernels in either one or several sources files.

By default, Xcode will build all of them into one .metallib resource.

The next step is to write your CIKernelin the Metal source file.

As before, you will include the CoreImage.h headerto get access to the Core Image classes.

But with this method, the kernel must be attributedas ] to be recognized by Core Image.

Once again,the final step is to add Swift code to load your kernel,and apply it to create a new image.

The only change with stitchable CIKernelsis that you can simply load the resourcewith the standard name of default.metallib.

That concludes the process of building stitchable CIKernels.

It is worth mentioning some of the benefitsof using this method.

Stitchable kernels can link against other Metal libraries.

And they now support input parametersthat are integer and unsigned integer vector types.

Another niche benefit is that stitchable kernelscan be compiled from source at runtime.

Most applications should not use this featurebecause it will incur longer initial compile times.

That said, there are some classes of applicationsthat may benefit from this flexibility.

There is one last topic to cover in this presentation.

The stitchable CIKernel implementationdepends on two important Metal features.

The first is the new Metal Shading Language version 2.4.

Among other things,this versions supports the ] attributethat causes the compiler to associate additional metadatawith each function.

The second is the Metal Dynamic Libraries featurethat is used so that your kernelscan link against the Core Image Metal classes.

For more details on these Metal features, be sure to watch the"Discover Compilation Workflows in Metal" presentation.

Be aware, though, that Metal Dynamic Librariesare only supported on some graphics devices,specifically iPhone and iPad with A11 and later,all Macs with Apple silicon,and Intel Macs with AMD Navi and Vega GPUs.

Your application should check the Metal device propertysupportsDynamicLibrariesbefore using stitchable CIKernels.

So that concludes my step-by-step descriptionof how to use the two recommended waysto add Metal CIKernels to your application.

For each method, I've covered how to configure your project,write the kernel source,and initialize the kernel objects.

I hope that this allows you to add great visual effectsto your app's images and videos.

Thank you and enjoy the rest of WWDC 2021!♪

3:54 -Extern CIKernels

4:32 -Load your extern CI kernel and apply it to create a new image

6:18 -Stitchable CI Kernel

6:40 -Load your stitchable CI kernel and apply it to create a new image

## Code Samples

```swift
// MyKernels.ci.metal


#
include
 
<CoreImage/CoreImage.h> // includes CIKernelMetalLib.h


using namespace metal;


extern
 
"C"
 float4 myKernel (coreimage::sample_t s, 
                            
float
 param, 
                            coreimage::destination dest) 
{
  float4 result = s;
  
  
// Example code to create striped pattern

	
float
 diagLine = dest.coord().x + dest.coord().y;
	
float
 stripe   = fract(diagLine/
20.0
 + param*
2.0
);
  
  
// Color range check

	
if
((stripe > 
0.5
) && ((s.r > 
1
) || (s.g > 
1
) || (s.b > 
1
)))
		result = float4(
2.0
, 
0.0
, 
0.0
, 
1.0
);
  
	
return
 result;
}
```

```swift
class
 
MyFilter
: 
CIFilter
 
{
    
var
 inputImage: 
CIImage
?
	
var
 inputParam: 
Float
 
=
 
0.0

    
static
 
var
 kernel: 
CIColorKernel
 
=
 { () -> 
CIColorKernel
 
in
 
	  
let
 url 
=
 
Bundle
.main.url(forResource: 
"MyKernels"
, 
                              withExtension: 
"ci.metallib"
)
!

      
let
 data 
=
 
try!
 
Data
(contentsOf: url)
	  
return
 
try!
 
CIColorKernel
(functionName: 
"MyKernel"
, 
                              fromMetalLibraryData: data)
	}()
	
override
 
var
 outputImage : 
CIImage
? {
      
get
 { 
guard
 
let
 input 
=
 inputImage 
else
 { 
return
 
nil
 }
		
return
 
MyFilter
.kernel.apply(extent:input.extent, 
                                 arguments:[input, inputParam]) }
	}
}
```

```swift
// MyKernels.ci.metal


#
include
 
<CoreImage/CoreImage.h> // includes CIKernelMetalLib.h


using namespace metal;

[[stitchable]] float4 myKernel (coreimage::sample_t s, 
                                
float
 param, 
                                coreimage::destination d) 
{
  float4 result = s;
  
  
// Example code to create striped pattern

	
float
 diagLine = dest.coord().x + dest.coord().y;
	
float
 stripe   = fract(diagLine/
20.0
 + param*
2.0
);
  
  
// Color range check

	
if
((stripe > 
0.5
) && ((s.r > 
1
) || (s.g > 
1
) || (s.b > 
1
)))
		result = float4(
2.0
, 
0.0
, 
0.0
, 
1.0
);
  
	
return
 result;
}
```

```swift
class
 
MyFilter
: 
CIFilter
 
{
    
var
 inputImage: 
CIImage
?
	
var
 inputParam: 
Float
 
=
 
0.0

    
static
 
var
 kernel: 
CIColorKernel
 
=
 { () -> 
CIColorKernel
 
in
 
	    
let
 url 
=
 
Bundle
.main.url(forResource: 
"default"
, 
                                withExtension: 
"metallib"
)
!

		
let
 data 
=
 
try!
 
Data
(contentsOf: url)
		
return
 
try!
 
CIColorKernel
(functionName: 
"MyKernel"
, fromMetalLibraryData: data)
	}()
	
override
 
var
 outputImage : 
CIImage
? {
      
get
 { 
guard
 
let
 input 
=
 inputImage 
else
 { 
return
 
nil
 }
		
return
 
MyFilter
.kernel.apply(extent:input.extent, arguments:[input, inputParam]) }
	}
}
```

