# Wwdc2021 10321

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Monday@WWDC21Trying to make sense of all the exciting announcements, new technologies, and Fall previews at WWDC this year? Let's break it down for you. Check out a recap of everything that happened on Day 1 of WWDC — and get a sneak peek at all the great stuff coming tomorrow.ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC21Apple’s privacy pillars in focusCreate 3D models with Object CaptureKeynoteKeynote (ASL)Meet async/await in SwiftPlatforms State of the UnionPlatforms State of the Union (ASL)The practice of inclusive designWhat's new in watchOS 8

Trying to make sense of all the exciting announcements, new technologies, and Fall previews at WWDC this year? Let's break it down for you. Check out a recap of everything that happened on Day 1 of WWDC — and get a sneak peek at all the great stuff coming tomorrow.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Apple’s privacy pillars in focus

Create 3D models with Object Capture

Keynote

Keynote (ASL)

Meet async/await in Swift

Platforms State of the Union

Platforms State of the Union (ASL)

The practice of inclusive design

What's new in watchOS 8

Search this video…Hey there, developers! I'm Serenity Caldwell at Apple.Did you miss day one at Dub Dub?Well, let's go back in time.- Good morning, and welcome to WWDC.- iOS 15 is here.Maps got an intuitive 3D redesign.Safari looks new on iPhone, iPad, and Mac,and we introduced the amazing Live Text.- How cool is that?- We took FaceTime calls to the next levelwith spatial audio and Portrait mode.And with SharePlay, you can now share your screenor listen to music or watch a TV showwith your friends all in syncacross your iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple TV.- This is where you come in.We're offering new APIs to start playbackthat are designed to fit right into your app'sexisting video experience.- And speaking of, now Apple TV sounds even betterwith head-tracked spatial audio support.And with Find My separation alerts,you'll never leave your AirPods behind.iCloud+ keeps your online activityaway from data collectors.App Library is on iPad now,and check out how to place widgetsamong apps on your Home screen.AirPlay is coming to Mac,and a big round of applause for Universal Control.Look how I move between different devicesas if they were one.Look how I drag and drop files.Look how cool I am.We took a big step with Walking Steadiness.You can share your health datawith your family and your doctors with the Health app,or try some Tai Chi, Pilates, and mindfulnesson your Apple Watch.Let's get back on track.Later this year, we're bringing ID cards to Wallet,Home Keys to unlock your home with just one tap,and say hello to Siri on third-party devices.- We believe Siri's most powerfulwhen it's available throughout your house.- Then we learned about Xcode Cloud,how to stay in the zone with Focus mode.- These tools help reduce distractionsso that people can be in the moment.- How to build apps in Swift Playgrounds,Swift concurrency, SwiftUI...That's so many swifts.Powerful new tools for developing high-end games.Object Capture for ARKit and APIs for SharePlay.- Now we're all looking at the same canvas to draw together.- Wow, that's a lot of stuff.Not bad for day one, eh?Now, here's a peek at what happens tomorrow.♪ "Better Days (Instrumental)" by DARKMINDS" ♪♪Stay tuned for more amazing stuff.It'll be a great week.♪

Hey there, developers! I'm Serenity Caldwell at Apple.

Did you miss day one at Dub Dub?Well, let's go back in time.- Good morning, and welcome to WWDC.

- iOS 15 is here.

Maps got an intuitive 3D redesign.

Safari looks new on iPhone, iPad, and Mac,and we introduced the amazing Live Text.

- How cool is that?- We took FaceTime calls to the next levelwith spatial audio and Portrait mode.

And with SharePlay, you can now share your screenor listen to music or watch a TV showwith your friends all in syncacross your iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple TV.

- This is where you come in.

We're offering new APIs to start playbackthat are designed to fit right into your app'sexisting video experience.

- And speaking of, now Apple TV sounds even betterwith head-tracked spatial audio support.

And with Find My separation alerts,you'll never leave your AirPods behind.

iCloud+ keeps your online activityaway from data collectors.

App Library is on iPad now,and check out how to place widgetsamong apps on your Home screen.

AirPlay is coming to Mac,and a big round of applause for Universal Control.

Look how I move between different devicesas if they were one.

Look how I drag and drop files.

Look how cool I am.

We took a big step with Walking Steadiness.

You can share your health datawith your family and your doctors with the Health app,or try some Tai Chi, Pilates, and mindfulnesson your Apple Watch.

Let's get back on track.

Later this year, we're bringing ID cards to Wallet,Home Keys to unlock your home with just one tap,and say hello to Siri on third-party devices.

- We believe Siri's most powerfulwhen it's available throughout your house.

- Then we learned about Xcode Cloud,how to stay in the zone with Focus mode.

- These tools help reduce distractionsso that people can be in the moment.

- How to build apps in Swift Playgrounds,Swift concurrency, SwiftUI...

That's so many swifts.

Powerful new tools for developing high-end games.

Object Capture for ARKit and APIs for SharePlay.

- Now we're all looking at the same canvas to draw together.

- Wow, that's a lot of stuff.

Not bad for day one, eh?Now, here's a peek at what happens tomorrow.

♪ "Better Days (Instrumental)" by DARKMINDS" ♪♪Stay tuned for more amazing stuff.

It'll be a great week.

♪

## Code Samples

