# Wwdc2021 10141

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Improve global streaming availability with HLS Content SteeringDiscover how you can use HLS playlist tags and the Steering Manifest format with your content to help dynamically update CDN redundancy policies tuned for each viewer. Learn how to load balance, set failover, and more.ResourcesHLS Content Steering SpecificationHTTP Live Streaming - OverviewHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC22Deliver reliable streams with HLS Content Steering

Discover how you can use HLS playlist tags and the Steering Manifest format with your content to help dynamically update CDN redundancy policies tuned for each viewer. Learn how to load balance, set failover, and more.

HLS Content Steering Specification

HTTP Live Streaming - Overview

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Deliver reliable streams with HLS Content Steering

Search this video…♪ Bass music playing ♪♪Naiwei Zheng: Hello. Welcome to WWDC.My name is Zheng Naiwei.I'm from Apple's HLS Streaming Team.Today I'm going to talk about a new feature in HLScalled Content Steering,and how it can improve global streaming availability.Today's network connectivity is at global scale.Streaming media providers deliver their contentsall around the world.However, delivering contents at the global scale comes withenormous amount of challenges the industry has to solve.We, HLS Streaming Team at Apple,also recognize these challenging problemsand are constantly working to provide solutions.Today, we will be focusing on the problem of availability.Specifically, network congestion mitigationand error recovery.To help us understand these problems,let's take a look at an example.Let's assume a popular streaming provider in Asiadeploys its CDN infrastructuresin the following three countries:China, Japan, and Singapore.In this graph, we are showing a state where everythingis working in perfect condition.We have users in China streaming from Chinese CDNand users from Japan streaming from Japanese CDN,and both CDN networks are performing at capable level.Now, let's introduce some change.Let's say a while later, users in Chinastreaming from the Chinese CDN has greatly increased,to a degree that CDN network is becoming overloading.With the HLS technologies we had,it's difficult to fully address this issueof network congestion.Even though we could assign new users to different CDN,it's, however, difficult to instruct existing clientsto use a different CDN,and existing traffic will continuously overloadthe current CDN.With our new HLS Content Steering feature,content providers can solve this problemby hosting their own steering server.It establishes a side channel with all latest HLS clientsto update them with the latest CDN policy.For example, it can send a policy update to 30 percentof the existing clients in China to switch to Japanese CDN.And the clients receiving the policy updatewill honor the change and redirect their network trafficsto the Japanese CDN.Now the network congestion in the Chinese CDN is mitigated.But network congestion is only oneof the many availability problems.What happens when there's a network outage?Let's take another example.Say the network path from users in Japan to the Japanese CDNhas experienced a regional outage.With HLS technologies we had,content providers can list our fallback variant streamsin master playlist,so clients can try to walk through the listuntil it reaches a working CDN.But this approach is preliminary in the sensethat content provider is unable to changethe ordering or priorities of the CDNs listedin the master playlist in real time.However, with the help of the steering server,clients will be updated with the latest CDN prioritiesat near real time.Let's rewind a bit to see how it can facilitate the clientwith more efficient error recovery.Before the network outage,clients in Japan periodically pullfor CDN priority list updates from the steering server.Let's say in the latest update,clients in Japan received the following CDN priority listwhere the Japanese CDN being most preferred,following Singapore and then China.Currently, users in Japan are streaming from the Japanese CDN.Now when the network outage happens,the Japanese CDN will be marked as penalizedfrom the priority list.The client will move on to the next CDN in the priority list,which in this case, the CDN in Singapore,and redirect their network traffics.Now the users in Japan will be able to continuewatching their shows without interrupt.What our example showed you is just a high-level overviewof our new HLS feature, Content Steering.Now let's dive deeper to show you how to integratethis amazing feature into your streams.It's just a simple listing of different CDN URLsduplicating all available variants.As explained before, a playlist like thishas a constant and final ordering of CDN priorities.Content providers cannot change it laterduring the playback.Now let's see how to add Content Steering supportto this playlist.You may be surprised how little the change introduced.In fact, the changes are backward-compatiblewith current HLS clients.Let's walk through the additions.Most notably, we now group variant streamsinto different pathways by the PATHWAY-ID attributeson each variant stream,where each pathway typically corresponds to one CDN.In this example, we group the variant streams into pathway CN,JP, and SG, representing CDNs in China, Japan,and Singapore, respectively.However, a pathway may contain variant streamsfrom different CDNs to enable more advanced use case.When the client selects a pathway,only the variant streams from that pathwayis eligible for variant selection.The PATHWAY-ID attribute on the new CONTENT-STEERING tagspecifies the initial pathway to use at playback startup.So, in this case, the client will only choosefrom variant streams belonging to the CN pathwayat the initial playback.The SERVER-URI attributespecifies where is the Content Steering server.Clients will pull for Content Steering updatesfrom this URI.But what if your playlist contains media groups?No problem.It's still very simple to enable Content Steering.All you have to do is to duplicate the media groupsfor each pathway and assign them with unique GROUP-IDs.For example, the audio group in this playlistis being duplicated for each pathway,with the GROUP-ID set to CN-audio for the CN pathwayand et cetera.When an HLS client loaded a master playlistwith Content Steering tag,it triggers a slightly different startup routine.First, when it performs initial variant stream selection,it will only use variant streams from the initial pathway.Then it will load and start playingthe selected variant stream and its media segments as usual.But in parallel to the normal playback routine,the client will start makingperiodic Steering Manifest requests in background.Let's take a look of whata Steering Manifest request looks like.It's just a simple HTTP GET requestsent to this resolved URI from the SERVER-URI attributebased on the master playlist URL.The steering server will respond with a Steering Manifest.Let's dissect its format with an example.The Steering Manifest is a JSON document.The steering server can craft customized Steering Manifestsfor each client.This gives steering server great potentialin shaping its managed network traffic.The most important property in this Steering Manifestis the PATHWAY-PRIORITY field.It's a list of pathway IDs ordered by their priorities,with the first being the most preferred.Here in this example,we have a priority of CN pathway being most preferred,followed by JP and then SG.Upon receiving the Steering Manifestfrom the steering server, the client will performContent Steering evaluation to determine whetherto switch to a different pathway.First, the client will exclude variant streamsineligible for selection.This includes penalized variant streamsdue to network errors.And also, variant streams with unsupported codecs,just like usual variant selection would do.It will select a pathway that has at least oneeligible variant streams and has highest pathway priorityamong all eligible pathways.If the chosen pathway is differentfrom the currently using pathway,the client will immediately switch to the new pathway.If no suitable pathway is chosenor is already using the chosen pathway,client will do nothingand keep playing using the current pathway.Finally, the client will schedulefor the next Steering Manifest requestto pull for latest updates from the steering server.So how does this scheduling work?Let's review the Steering Manifest.Notice that there's a TTL field which specifythe number of seconds the client should waituntil sending the next Steering Manifest request.In this example, after the client performedthe Content Steering evaluationusing this Steering Manifest's pathway priority list,it will schedule the next Steering Manifest requestin 300 seconds, which is five minutes.It's also worth noting that steering server is ableto change this TTL value in each Steering Manifest response,affecting how long the clientshould schedule the next request.It's also useful for steering serverto inject some randomness to each client's TTL valueto distribute server load.In addition, the optional RELOAD-URI fieldtells the clients where to requestthe next Steering Manifest.Steering server can leverage this field to injectclient-specific state or session data in the URLto be echoed back in the next request.Now you have seen the major technical detailsof Content Steering.Let's go back to one of our early examplesto see how it works under the hood.Let's say in this case, all users in Chinahave received a Steering Manifestwith the CN pathway being most preferred,and the corresponding Chinese CDN is being overloadedbecause of the increasing number of users.So the steering server came into action,and sending out a different Steering Manifestto 30 percent of the users in China,with the most preferred pathway changed to JP.After performing a Content Steering evaluation,those 30 percent clients in Chinawill switch to the JP pathway,redirecting their network traffics to the CDN in Japan,resolving the network congestion situation in Chinese CDN.To wrap up, we introduced the new HLS featureof Content Steering, explained how it works,and how to integrate it in your streams.With this amazing feature, you will be ableto fine-tune your global streaming availability.For more technical details, follow the link below this videofor "HLS Content Steering Specification".I'd also like to tell you that playlistsand Steering Manifest validation is also supportedin our latest HTTP Live Streaming Tools.I'd also like to acknowledge feedbacksand helps we received from industry membersin the HLS Interest IETF forum.Future feedbacks and suggestions are also welcomed.And with all these in place,the HLS Content Steering will be available to developersand users in this year's WWDC Seed builds.So, if you want a better global streaming deliverywith more availability,act now to integrate HLS Content Steeringin your streamsand bring your customers a better streaming experience.Thank you very much.♪

♪ Bass music playing ♪♪Naiwei Zheng: Hello. Welcome to WWDC.

My name is Zheng Naiwei.

I'm from Apple's HLS Streaming Team.

Today I'm going to talk about a new feature in HLScalled Content Steering,and how it can improve global streaming availability.

Today's network connectivity is at global scale.

Streaming media providers deliver their contentsall around the world.

However, delivering contents at the global scale comes withenormous amount of challenges the industry has to solve.

We, HLS Streaming Team at Apple,also recognize these challenging problemsand are constantly working to provide solutions.

Today, we will be focusing on the problem of availability.

Specifically, network congestion mitigationand error recovery.

To help us understand these problems,let's take a look at an example.

Let's assume a popular streaming provider in Asiadeploys its CDN infrastructuresin the following three countries:China, Japan, and Singapore.

In this graph, we are showing a state where everythingis working in perfect condition.

We have users in China streaming from Chinese CDNand users from Japan streaming from Japanese CDN,and both CDN networks are performing at capable level.

Now, let's introduce some change.

Let's say a while later, users in Chinastreaming from the Chinese CDN has greatly increased,to a degree that CDN network is becoming overloading.

With the HLS technologies we had,it's difficult to fully address this issueof network congestion.

Even though we could assign new users to different CDN,it's, however, difficult to instruct existing clientsto use a different CDN,and existing traffic will continuously overloadthe current CDN.

With our new HLS Content Steering feature,content providers can solve this problemby hosting their own steering server.

It establishes a side channel with all latest HLS clientsto update them with the latest CDN policy.

For example, it can send a policy update to 30 percentof the existing clients in China to switch to Japanese CDN.

And the clients receiving the policy updatewill honor the change and redirect their network trafficsto the Japanese CDN.

Now the network congestion in the Chinese CDN is mitigated.

But network congestion is only oneof the many availability problems.

What happens when there's a network outage?Let's take another example.

Say the network path from users in Japan to the Japanese CDNhas experienced a regional outage.

With HLS technologies we had,content providers can list our fallback variant streamsin master playlist,so clients can try to walk through the listuntil it reaches a working CDN.

But this approach is preliminary in the sensethat content provider is unable to changethe ordering or priorities of the CDNs listedin the master playlist in real time.

However, with the help of the steering server,clients will be updated with the latest CDN prioritiesat near real time.

Let's rewind a bit to see how it can facilitate the clientwith more efficient error recovery.

Before the network outage,clients in Japan periodically pullfor CDN priority list updates from the steering server.

Let's say in the latest update,clients in Japan received the following CDN priority listwhere the Japanese CDN being most preferred,following Singapore and then China.

Currently, users in Japan are streaming from the Japanese CDN.

Now when the network outage happens,the Japanese CDN will be marked as penalizedfrom the priority list.

The client will move on to the next CDN in the priority list,which in this case, the CDN in Singapore,and redirect their network traffics.

Now the users in Japan will be able to continuewatching their shows without interrupt.

What our example showed you is just a high-level overviewof our new HLS feature, Content Steering.

Now let's dive deeper to show you how to integratethis amazing feature into your streams.

It's just a simple listing of different CDN URLsduplicating all available variants.

As explained before, a playlist like thishas a constant and final ordering of CDN priorities.

Content providers cannot change it laterduring the playback.

Now let's see how to add Content Steering supportto this playlist.

You may be surprised how little the change introduced.

In fact, the changes are backward-compatiblewith current HLS clients.

Let's walk through the additions.

Most notably, we now group variant streamsinto different pathways by the PATHWAY-ID attributeson each variant stream,where each pathway typically corresponds to one CDN.

In this example, we group the variant streams into pathway CN,JP, and SG, representing CDNs in China, Japan,and Singapore, respectively.

However, a pathway may contain variant streamsfrom different CDNs to enable more advanced use case.

When the client selects a pathway,only the variant streams from that pathwayis eligible for variant selection.

The PATHWAY-ID attribute on the new CONTENT-STEERING tagspecifies the initial pathway to use at playback startup.

So, in this case, the client will only choosefrom variant streams belonging to the CN pathwayat the initial playback.

The SERVER-URI attributespecifies where is the Content Steering server.

Clients will pull for Content Steering updatesfrom this URI.

But what if your playlist contains media groups?No problem.

It's still very simple to enable Content Steering.

All you have to do is to duplicate the media groupsfor each pathway and assign them with unique GROUP-IDs.

For example, the audio group in this playlistis being duplicated for each pathway,with the GROUP-ID set to CN-audio for the CN pathwayand et cetera.

When an HLS client loaded a master playlistwith Content Steering tag,it triggers a slightly different startup routine.

First, when it performs initial variant stream selection,it will only use variant streams from the initial pathway.

Then it will load and start playingthe selected variant stream and its media segments as usual.

But in parallel to the normal playback routine,the client will start makingperiodic Steering Manifest requests in background.

Let's take a look of whata Steering Manifest request looks like.

It's just a simple HTTP GET requestsent to this resolved URI from the SERVER-URI attributebased on the master playlist URL.

The steering server will respond with a Steering Manifest.

Let's dissect its format with an example.

The Steering Manifest is a JSON document.

The steering server can craft customized Steering Manifestsfor each client.

This gives steering server great potentialin shaping its managed network traffic.

The most important property in this Steering Manifestis the PATHWAY-PRIORITY field.

It's a list of pathway IDs ordered by their priorities,with the first being the most preferred.

Here in this example,we have a priority of CN pathway being most preferred,followed by JP and then SG.

Upon receiving the Steering Manifestfrom the steering server, the client will performContent Steering evaluation to determine whetherto switch to a different pathway.

First, the client will exclude variant streamsineligible for selection.

This includes penalized variant streamsdue to network errors.

And also, variant streams with unsupported codecs,just like usual variant selection would do.

It will select a pathway that has at least oneeligible variant streams and has highest pathway priorityamong all eligible pathways.

If the chosen pathway is differentfrom the currently using pathway,the client will immediately switch to the new pathway.

If no suitable pathway is chosenor is already using the chosen pathway,client will do nothingand keep playing using the current pathway.

Finally, the client will schedulefor the next Steering Manifest requestto pull for latest updates from the steering server.

So how does this scheduling work?Let's review the Steering Manifest.

Notice that there's a TTL field which specifythe number of seconds the client should waituntil sending the next Steering Manifest request.

In this example, after the client performedthe Content Steering evaluationusing this Steering Manifest's pathway priority list,it will schedule the next Steering Manifest requestin 300 seconds, which is five minutes.

It's also worth noting that steering server is ableto change this TTL value in each Steering Manifest response,affecting how long the clientshould schedule the next request.

It's also useful for steering serverto inject some randomness to each client's TTL valueto distribute server load.

In addition, the optional RELOAD-URI fieldtells the clients where to requestthe next Steering Manifest.

Steering server can leverage this field to injectclient-specific state or session data in the URLto be echoed back in the next request.

Now you have seen the major technical detailsof Content Steering.

Let's go back to one of our early examplesto see how it works under the hood.

Let's say in this case, all users in Chinahave received a Steering Manifestwith the CN pathway being most preferred,and the corresponding Chinese CDN is being overloadedbecause of the increasing number of users.

So the steering server came into action,and sending out a different Steering Manifestto 30 percent of the users in China,with the most preferred pathway changed to JP.

After performing a Content Steering evaluation,those 30 percent clients in Chinawill switch to the JP pathway,redirecting their network traffics to the CDN in Japan,resolving the network congestion situation in Chinese CDN.

To wrap up, we introduced the new HLS featureof Content Steering, explained how it works,and how to integrate it in your streams.

With this amazing feature, you will be ableto fine-tune your global streaming availability.

For more technical details, follow the link below this videofor "HLS Content Steering Specification".

I'd also like to tell you that playlistsand Steering Manifest validation is also supportedin our latest HTTP Live Streaming Tools.

I'd also like to acknowledge feedbacksand helps we received from industry membersin the HLS Interest IETF forum.

Future feedbacks and suggestions are also welcomed.

And with all these in place,the HLS Content Steering will be available to developersand users in this year's WWDC Seed builds.

So, if you want a better global streaming deliverywith more availability,act now to integrate HLS Content Steeringin your streamsand bring your customers a better streaming experience.

Thank you very much.

♪

## Code Samples

