# Wwdc2021 10297

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Manage devices with Apple ConfiguratorApple Configurator is now more capable than ever. Whether you're provisioning iOS, iPadOS, and tvOS devices in your organization or servicing existing macOS devices, learn how Apple Configurator can help with key workflows. And, coming to iPhone in iOS 15, discover how you can bring Automated Device Enrollment to even more macOS devices.ResourcesApple Configurator 2 User GuideHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosTech TalksPrepare your organization for macOS MontereyWWDC22What's new in managing Apple devicesWWDC21What’s new in managing Apple devices

Apple Configurator is now more capable than ever. Whether you're provisioning iOS, iPadOS, and tvOS devices in your organization or servicing existing macOS devices, learn how Apple Configurator can help with key workflows. And, coming to iPhone in iOS 15, discover how you can bring Automated Device Enrollment to even more macOS devices.

Apple Configurator 2 User Guide

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Prepare your organization for macOS Monterey

What's new in managing Apple devices

What’s new in managing Apple devices

Search this video…♪ Bass music playing ♪♪Pradhap Natarajan: Hello, and welcome to"Manage Devices with Apple Configurator."I am Pradhap Natarajan,an engineer on the Device Management teamhere at Apple.Today, I am going to walk you through some exciting updatesto Apple Configurator.Configurator makes it easy to deploy iPad, iPhone,and Apple TV devices in your school or business.It features a flexible device-centric designthat enables you to configure one or dozens of devicesquickly and easily.You can inspect any device to see detailslike the serial number and hardware addresses,installed apps, and profiles.In addition to apps and profiles,Configurator can also install books and software updates.Blueprints provide a great way to apply the same configurationto large numbers of devices with a single click.Configurator also provides a rich set of automation tools,including a command line tool, an AppleScript library,and a suite of Automator actions.Initially, Configurator supported iOS and tvOS devices.But recently, it has learned some new tricksfor managing Mac computers as well.We introduced the ability to restore and revive a Mac,beginning with models with the Apple T2 Security Chip.And last year, we brought those featuresto each Mac with Apple silicon.There are two ways to use Configurator with a Mac.First, Restore is a great wayto return a Mac with Apple silicon to serviceby reinstalling the latest macOS version.On a Mac with the T2 chip,this action restores the firmware,after which macOS can be reinstalledusing internet recovery.The second is Revive.Revive helps you recover a Mac while preserving user data.Occasionally, things can go wrong.For example, a MacBook Pro could run out of batteryduring a software update.In these situations,a Mac with Apple silicon or a T2 chip can be revivedwhich updates the firmware while preserving user data.To return this Mac to service, select it in Configuratorand choose Revive from the Advanced Actions menu.This will bring the Mac back to life.It is important to use the correct porton your MacBook Air with Apple silicon,or a Mac Mini,or a MacBook Pro.And note that the port is differenton your MacBook Pro with the T2 Chip.Let’s recap Restore and Revive.To prepare a Mac for a new user, use Restore.This action restores the firmwareand updates recoveryOS to the latest versionand erases all user data.On Apple silicon,this also reinstalls the latest version of macOS.If you have a Mac that is unable to boot, use Revive.Revive updates the firmware and the recoveryOSto the latest version while preserving user data.And remember, it’s essential to use the correct port on your Macwhen restoring or reviving it.For more information on restoring a Mac,please refer to the Configurator user guide.Configurator has served us well in helping to erase and restoreiPhone, iPad, and Apple TV devices quickly.Now it can do the samefor a Mac with Apple silicon or T2 chip.Let’s look at another way Configurator can be a lifesaverfor organizations that need to manage lots of Mac computers.A Mac purchased directly from Apple,participating Apple authorized resellers, and cellular carrierscan be assigned to your organizationin Apple Business Manager or Apple School Manager.And having the Mac assigned to your organizationprovides access to some key device management features.For example, automated device enrollment enables your usersto enroll in your organization’s MDM solutionwith the flow integrated right into Setup Assistant in macOS.Also Automated Device Enrollment paired with AutoAdvanceenables a completely touch-free configuration solutionfor Mac computersby just connecting to power and ethernet.The Mac is enrolled in your MDM Server,automatically configured to your specifications,and left ready for use in your organization.But if the Mac wasn’t purchasedthrough one of Apple’s supported channelsand not assigned to your organization,you cannot take advantage of these great features.Configurator has long provided a way to assign iPhone,iPad, and Apple TV devices to your organizationin Apple Business Manager or Apple School Manager,even if they were not purchased through an official channel.Yet, Configurator hasn’t provided a wayto assign a Mac purchased outside an official channel,until now.Today, I am very excited to introduceApple Configurator for iPhone.This new app makes it easyto assign a Mac to your organization.It works like magic!Assign one Mac -- or 100 -- without a cable,using your iPhone’s camera.All you need to do to perform this critical taskis sign in with a Managed Apple IDand point your iPhone’s camera at an imagein Setup Assistant on a Mac.The Managed Apple ID must have at leastthe device enrollment manager role in your organization.Let me walk you through how it works.The app has just two main buttons.The first button is Settings.It allows you to choose the network configurationthe Mac should use to connect to Wi-Fi,if it is not already connected over Ethernet.The easiest option is to share the current Wi-Fi networkthat your iPhone is connected to.However, not all networks are shareable.If you need the Mac to connect to a networkthat is not shareable,you can choose a configuration profilewith the Wi-Fi payload that the Mac should use.To assign a Mac to your organization,simply start up the Mac and select the language.When the Mac asks you to select your country or region,bring the iPhone running Configurator near the Mac,wait for the animation to appear on the Mac,then center the animation in the viewfinder of iPhone’s camera.Wait for the message that says “Paired Successfully”.Boom! That’s it.Once paired, Configurator sends all the required informationto the Mac to assign itself to your organization.The other button allows you to view the statusof each assigned Mac.Status provides a report of nearby Mac computersthat you can assign to your organizationand the ones that have already been assigned.Once the Mac is assigned to your organization,the next stepis to configure automated device enrollment settings.To do this, sign into Apple Business Manageror Apple School Manager,move the newly assigned Macfrom the Apple Configurator 2 MDM serverto the MDM server that will deliverthe correct automated device enrollment settings.The next time the Mac restarts,it will download its new enrollment settingsand enroll itself into the selected MDM server,configuring itself according to the settings you specified.Now, it is ready for use by an employee or a studentin your organization.Note that a Mac assigned using this featurewill be released from your organizationif the user unenrolls from MDMduring a 30-day provisional period, just like iOS.Configurator for iPhone makes it easy to assign any Macto your organization in Apple Business Manageror Apple School Managerso that you can take advantageof all the great device management featuresthat automated device enrollment enables.As a program member,you'll be able to download the app at AppleSeed for IT.Alternatively, you will be able to request access via TestFlighton the Apple Developer website.Apple Configurator for iPhone beta requires iOS 15and can assign Mac computers running macOS Monterey.Make sure to file your feedback using Feedback Assistant.Apple Configurator for iPhonewill be available in the App Store this fall.Enjoy WWDC 2021.Thank you.

♪ Bass music playing ♪♪Pradhap Natarajan: Hello, and welcome to"Manage Devices with Apple Configurator."I am Pradhap Natarajan,an engineer on the Device Management teamhere at Apple.

Today, I am going to walk you through some exciting updatesto Apple Configurator.

Configurator makes it easy to deploy iPad, iPhone,and Apple TV devices in your school or business.

It features a flexible device-centric designthat enables you to configure one or dozens of devicesquickly and easily.

You can inspect any device to see detailslike the serial number and hardware addresses,installed apps, and profiles.

In addition to apps and profiles,Configurator can also install books and software updates.

Blueprints provide a great way to apply the same configurationto large numbers of devices with a single click.

Configurator also provides a rich set of automation tools,including a command line tool, an AppleScript library,and a suite of Automator actions.

Initially, Configurator supported iOS and tvOS devices.

But recently, it has learned some new tricksfor managing Mac computers as well.

We introduced the ability to restore and revive a Mac,beginning with models with the Apple T2 Security Chip.

And last year, we brought those featuresto each Mac with Apple silicon.

There are two ways to use Configurator with a Mac.

First, Restore is a great wayto return a Mac with Apple silicon to serviceby reinstalling the latest macOS version.

On a Mac with the T2 chip,this action restores the firmware,after which macOS can be reinstalledusing internet recovery.

The second is Revive.

Revive helps you recover a Mac while preserving user data.

Occasionally, things can go wrong.

For example, a MacBook Pro could run out of batteryduring a software update.

In these situations,a Mac with Apple silicon or a T2 chip can be revivedwhich updates the firmware while preserving user data.

To return this Mac to service, select it in Configuratorand choose Revive from the Advanced Actions menu.

This will bring the Mac back to life.

It is important to use the correct porton your MacBook Air with Apple silicon,or a Mac Mini,or a MacBook Pro.

And note that the port is differenton your MacBook Pro with the T2 Chip.

Let’s recap Restore and Revive.

To prepare a Mac for a new user, use Restore.

This action restores the firmwareand updates recoveryOS to the latest versionand erases all user data.

On Apple silicon,this also reinstalls the latest version of macOS.

If you have a Mac that is unable to boot, use Revive.

Revive updates the firmware and the recoveryOSto the latest version while preserving user data.

And remember, it’s essential to use the correct port on your Macwhen restoring or reviving it.

For more information on restoring a Mac,please refer to the Configurator user guide.

Configurator has served us well in helping to erase and restoreiPhone, iPad, and Apple TV devices quickly.

Now it can do the samefor a Mac with Apple silicon or T2 chip.

Let’s look at another way Configurator can be a lifesaverfor organizations that need to manage lots of Mac computers.

A Mac purchased directly from Apple,participating Apple authorized resellers, and cellular carrierscan be assigned to your organizationin Apple Business Manager or Apple School Manager.

And having the Mac assigned to your organizationprovides access to some key device management features.

For example, automated device enrollment enables your usersto enroll in your organization’s MDM solutionwith the flow integrated right into Setup Assistant in macOS.

Also Automated Device Enrollment paired with AutoAdvanceenables a completely touch-free configuration solutionfor Mac computersby just connecting to power and ethernet.

The Mac is enrolled in your MDM Server,automatically configured to your specifications,and left ready for use in your organization.

But if the Mac wasn’t purchasedthrough one of Apple’s supported channelsand not assigned to your organization,you cannot take advantage of these great features.

Configurator has long provided a way to assign iPhone,iPad, and Apple TV devices to your organizationin Apple Business Manager or Apple School Manager,even if they were not purchased through an official channel.

Yet, Configurator hasn’t provided a wayto assign a Mac purchased outside an official channel,until now.

Today, I am very excited to introduceApple Configurator for iPhone.

This new app makes it easyto assign a Mac to your organization.

It works like magic!Assign one Mac -- or 100 -- without a cable,using your iPhone’s camera.

All you need to do to perform this critical taskis sign in with a Managed Apple IDand point your iPhone’s camera at an imagein Setup Assistant on a Mac.

The Managed Apple ID must have at leastthe device enrollment manager role in your organization.

Let me walk you through how it works.

The app has just two main buttons.

The first button is Settings.

It allows you to choose the network configurationthe Mac should use to connect to Wi-Fi,if it is not already connected over Ethernet.

The easiest option is to share the current Wi-Fi networkthat your iPhone is connected to.

However, not all networks are shareable.

If you need the Mac to connect to a networkthat is not shareable,you can choose a configuration profilewith the Wi-Fi payload that the Mac should use.

To assign a Mac to your organization,simply start up the Mac and select the language.

When the Mac asks you to select your country or region,bring the iPhone running Configurator near the Mac,wait for the animation to appear on the Mac,then center the animation in the viewfinder of iPhone’s camera.

Wait for the message that says “Paired Successfully”.

Boom! That’s it.

Once paired, Configurator sends all the required informationto the Mac to assign itself to your organization.

The other button allows you to view the statusof each assigned Mac.

Status provides a report of nearby Mac computersthat you can assign to your organizationand the ones that have already been assigned.

Once the Mac is assigned to your organization,the next stepis to configure automated device enrollment settings.

To do this, sign into Apple Business Manageror Apple School Manager,move the newly assigned Macfrom the Apple Configurator 2 MDM serverto the MDM server that will deliverthe correct automated device enrollment settings.

The next time the Mac restarts,it will download its new enrollment settingsand enroll itself into the selected MDM server,configuring itself according to the settings you specified.

Now, it is ready for use by an employee or a studentin your organization.

Note that a Mac assigned using this featurewill be released from your organizationif the user unenrolls from MDMduring a 30-day provisional period, just like iOS.

Configurator for iPhone makes it easy to assign any Macto your organization in Apple Business Manageror Apple School Managerso that you can take advantageof all the great device management featuresthat automated device enrollment enables.

As a program member,you'll be able to download the app at AppleSeed for IT.

Alternatively, you will be able to request access via TestFlighton the Apple Developer website.

Apple Configurator for iPhone beta requires iOS 15and can assign Mac computers running macOS Monterey.

Make sure to file your feedback using Feedback Assistant.

Apple Configurator for iPhonewill be available in the App Store this fall.

Enjoy WWDC 2021.

Thank you.

## Code Samples

