# Wwdc2021 10096

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Get ready for iCloud Private RelayiCloud Private Relay is an iCloud+ service that prevents networks and servers from monitoring a person's activity across the internet. Discover how your app can participate in this transition to a more secure and private internet: We'll show you how to prepare your apps, servers, and networks to work with iCloud Private Relay.ResourcesPrepare Your Network for iCloud Private RelayProtecting the User’s PrivacyHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC23Ready, set, relay: Protect app traffic with network relaysWWDC21Apple’s privacy pillars in focusMeet the Screen Time APIWWDC19Network Extensions for the Modern Mac

iCloud Private Relay is an iCloud+ service that prevents networks and servers from monitoring a person's activity across the internet. Discover how your app can participate in this transition to a more secure and private internet: We'll show you how to prepare your apps, servers, and networks to work with iCloud Private Relay.

Prepare Your Network for iCloud Private Relay

Protecting the User’s Privacy

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Ready, set, relay: Protect app traffic with network relays

Apple’s privacy pillars in focus

Meet the Screen Time API

Network Extensions for the Modern Mac

Search this video…♪ Bass music playing ♪♪Tommy Pauly: Hi, I'm Tommy Pauly,and along with my colleague, Delziel,I'll be giving you an introductionto an exciting new feature in internet privacy.iCloud Private Relay is a new servicethat prevents networks and serversfrom monitoring user activity across the internet.And it's available as part of every iCloud+ subscription.Private Relay not only protects userswhen they're browsing the web, but also adds protectionto the traffic generated by your appto make sure you're not unintentionallyleaking user informationor exposing users to security attacks.Today, you'll learn what iCloud Private Relay isand how it affects your app;how to ensure that your app works great with Private Relay;how to prepare your websites and servers;and, lastly, how to manage a networkand monitor your traffic when Private Relay is enabled.Let's get started.Private Relay is built into iOS and macOS,so you don't need to do anything to adopt it from your app.It's also important to understandthat it won't always be affecting your app.It will only apply when a user is an iCloud+ subscriberand has Private Relay enabled.You're probably wondering, What does it actually do?Here's how things currently work without Private Relay.When someone accesses the internet,anyone on their local network can see the namesof all of the websites they accessbased on inspecting DNS queries.This information can be used to fingerprint a userand build a history of their activity over time.No one should be able to silently collectall of this information,whether it's a public Wi-Fi operator,another user on the network, or an internet service provider.When connections reach the servers that run websites,those servers can see the user's IP address.This allows the servers to determine user locationwithout explicit permission.Even worse, the servers are able to fingerprint user identityand recognize users across different websites,even when tools like Intelligent Tracking Prevention in Safariare preventing correlation via cookies.These are big problems for user privacy,and in order to fix them, we need a new approachthat has privacy built in by design.iCloud Private Relay adds multiple secure proxiesto help route user traffic and keep it private.The proxies are run by separate entities.One is Apple, and one is a content provider.Now, when someone accesses the internet,only the client IP address is visibleto both the network provider and to the first proxy.The second proxy only sees the name the user is requestingand uses that to build the connection to the server.It is critical to note that no one in this chain --not even Apple --can see both the client IP addressand what the user is accessing.The opportunities for fingerprintinghave been removed.This is privacy by design.Private Relay uses the latest transport protocolsand privacy-preserving authenticationto ensure that every transaction is both secure and fast.You can learn more about this technologyin the “Apple's privacy pillars in focus” session.Private Relay is focused on securingthe most sensitive traffic on the systemwithout impacting user experience.In iOS 15 and macOS 12,Private Relay will apply to all web browsing in Safari,all DNS name resolution queries,and a small subset of traffic from apps.Specifically, this will include all insecure HTTP traffic,such as TCP port 80.If your app provides a content filteror a parental controls filter,it will still see traffic before it goes through Private Relay,so you can apply your filters just as before.You can learn more about thisin the "Meet the Screen Time API" session.Not all networking done by your appoccurs over the public internet,so there are several categories of trafficthat are not affected by Private Relay.Any connections your app makes over the local networkor to private domain names will be unaffected.Similarly, if your app provides a network extensionto add VPN or app-proxying capabilities,your extension won't use Private Relayand neither will app traffic that uses your extension.Traffic that uses a proxy is also exempt.Next, let's cover what you need to doto make sure your app is ready to work well with Private Relay.The great news is that for almost every app,you don't need to do anything new!Private Relay will just work.However, there are some best practices you should know about.Private Relay works no matter what networking APIyou're using.For several years, we've recommended that your apps usemodern APIs such as URLSession and NWConnection.Now, you have one more reasonto adopt them throughout your apps.These APIs provide you the best toolsto understand how Private Relay is applying to your traffic.If you use URLSession,you can use the Network Xcode Instrumentto inspect your tasks,even when they are going through Private Relay.You can learn more about how to do thisin the "Analyze HTTP traffic in Instruments" session.And you can use metrics APIs in bothURLSession and Network.frameworkto understand when your connections use Private Relay.In TaskTransactionMetrics,you can check to see if your task used a proxy.In NWConnection's EstablishmentReport,you can also inspect the timings of DNS name resolutionand each stage of the proxied connection establishment.Private Relay takes a big step towards making unencryptedand insecure HTTP connections a thing of the past.You can join in this effort too!If you're still using insecure HTTP --that's connections on TCP port 80 --now is the time to change.When Private Relay is enabled,these insecure connections will be proxied,which protects them from attackers on a local networkbetween the client and the proxy.However, it’s still best to have your connectionsbe secure end to end for all users.To do this, make sure your server supports TLSand change your URLs from http:// to https://.Your app may have exceptions for App Transport Securityto allow insecure traffic.You can look at this list to audit what insecure trafficyour app uses and remove these exceptions.If your app provides functionality based on location,this is also a great time to make sure you're usingAPIs from Core Locationinstead of relying on servers inferring locationfrom IP addresses.IP address geolocation is often unreliable and inaccurate.Core Location allows you to specifythe precision of the location you needand is based on explicit user permission.You can learn more about the latest enhancementsto location accessin the “Apple's privacy pillars in focus” session.Once you've made sure your app is ready for Private Relay,try it out!Sign into an iPhone, iPad, or Macwith an iCloud+ subscription,and make sure Private Relay is enabledin the iCloud section of the Settings appor in System Preferences.You can provide feedback with the tag"iCloud Private Relay" in the feedback app.Now I'll hand it off to my colleague, Delziel.Delziel Fernandes: Thanks, Tommy.Hi, I'm Delziel Fernandes,and I'll be talking about how to prepare your serverand manage your network with Private Relay.If you have servers that your app relies on,or that user access in Safari,there are a few things you can do to prepare for Private Relay.Your servers can identify connections that come inusing Private Relayby recognizing the proxy IP addresses.These proxy IP addressesmay be shared by many users within a region.Each address is mapped to a specific city or region.So if you apply the correct geo IP mapping databases,your servers will still have the relevant information.Private Relay guarantees that users can't use the systemto pretend to be from a different region,so you can continue to enforceregion-based access restrictions.Details about the proxy IP addresseswill be available as an article associated with this session.Now let's take a look at network connectionsfrom devices using Private Relay.When a device tries to access a server,it first sets up a network connection to the ingress proxy.This connection is set up using an IP addressassigned by the network provider.The device then uses the ingress proxyto forward network requests to the egress proxyusing the ingress proxy IP address.The egress proxy then forwards these requeststo the destination servers by choosing an IP addressthat maps to the device's city or region.In general, your servers and websitesshould stop solely relying on client IP addressto determine user location or identity.If you need location access,consider requesting the user's location explicitly,and only at the granularity you need.If you need to identify users,request a login or some other form of explicit identificationrather than assuming that the IP address is tied to the identity.Last, let's cover some tips for managing your networkwhen Private Relay is in use.If you're running a packet trace on your local networkwhen Private Relay is in use,you'll see some new traffic patterns.You'll now see a lot more traffic running on UDP port 443.This is QUIC -- or HTTP/3 --traffic that's being used to communicatewith the Private Relay proxy.You can make sure your traffic works wellby allowing UDP port 443 on your networkand by making sure your routers or Network Address Translatorsare tuned to handle it well.You'll also see fewer cleartext UDP DNS queries on your network.Let's go over a typical network connection requestfrom a device when Private Relay is not in use.When a device tries to access a server,it first sends a DNS query for the hostname of the server.Once the hostname is resolved to an IP address,the device then connects to the IP address of the serverusing a transport protocol like TCP.The device then performs a TCP three-way handshakewith the server followed by a TLS exchangeto set up a secure connection with the server.But as you can see, without Private Relay,the hostname of the serverand the IP address of the device connecting to the serverare visible by simply observing packets on the network.With Private Relay,the device first sets up a connection to the ingress Proxyusing QUIC, or HTTP/3.In packet captures, you will notice UDP packetssent to port 443 of the ingress proxy.Once the network connection is establishedto the ingress proxy,access to a server is secured within the connectionto the ingress proxy.On the server end, there is no change in protocol.The TCP/TLS exchange is similar to trafficwithout Private Relay.The only difference is that the server seesthe incoming connection from a proxy IP addressinstead of a device's IP address.Most networks don't need to audit or monitorall user traffic.However, if you run an enterprise or school network,your network may have policiesthat require intercepting all traffic.To support this use case, you can block the hostnameof the iCloud Private Relay proxy server.Then, when a device connects to your network,the user will receive a prompt indicating that Private Relayis blocked on the current network.They can then choose to either disable Private Relayfor that network or switch networks.Information about the proxy hostname will be availableas an article associated with this session.For parental controls,the best solution is to use content filter APIsprovided by NetworkExtension framework.This allows traffic to be audited on deviceeven when Private Relay is enabled.For more information on content Filter APIs,watch "Meet the Screen Time API"and "Network extension for the modern Mac" sessions.To wrap things up,use modern secure networking APIs like URLSessionin your apps;test your apps with Private Relay;and make sure your servers and websites work wellwhen they receive connections routed through Private Relay.Thanks for watching, everyone!♪

♪ Bass music playing ♪♪Tommy Pauly: Hi, I'm Tommy Pauly,and along with my colleague, Delziel,I'll be giving you an introductionto an exciting new feature in internet privacy.

iCloud Private Relay is a new servicethat prevents networks and serversfrom monitoring user activity across the internet.

And it's available as part of every iCloud+ subscription.

Private Relay not only protects userswhen they're browsing the web, but also adds protectionto the traffic generated by your appto make sure you're not unintentionallyleaking user informationor exposing users to security attacks.

Today, you'll learn what iCloud Private Relay isand how it affects your app;how to ensure that your app works great with Private Relay;how to prepare your websites and servers;and, lastly, how to manage a networkand monitor your traffic when Private Relay is enabled.

Let's get started.

Private Relay is built into iOS and macOS,so you don't need to do anything to adopt it from your app.

It's also important to understandthat it won't always be affecting your app.

It will only apply when a user is an iCloud+ subscriberand has Private Relay enabled.

You're probably wondering, What does it actually do?Here's how things currently work without Private Relay.

When someone accesses the internet,anyone on their local network can see the namesof all of the websites they accessbased on inspecting DNS queries.

This information can be used to fingerprint a userand build a history of their activity over time.

No one should be able to silently collectall of this information,whether it's a public Wi-Fi operator,another user on the network, or an internet service provider.

When connections reach the servers that run websites,those servers can see the user's IP address.

This allows the servers to determine user locationwithout explicit permission.

Even worse, the servers are able to fingerprint user identityand recognize users across different websites,even when tools like Intelligent Tracking Prevention in Safariare preventing correlation via cookies.

These are big problems for user privacy,and in order to fix them, we need a new approachthat has privacy built in by design.

iCloud Private Relay adds multiple secure proxiesto help route user traffic and keep it private.

The proxies are run by separate entities.

One is Apple, and one is a content provider.

Now, when someone accesses the internet,only the client IP address is visibleto both the network provider and to the first proxy.

The second proxy only sees the name the user is requestingand uses that to build the connection to the server.

It is critical to note that no one in this chain --not even Apple --can see both the client IP addressand what the user is accessing.

The opportunities for fingerprintinghave been removed.

This is privacy by design.

Private Relay uses the latest transport protocolsand privacy-preserving authenticationto ensure that every transaction is both secure and fast.

You can learn more about this technologyin the “Apple's privacy pillars in focus” session.

Private Relay is focused on securingthe most sensitive traffic on the systemwithout impacting user experience.

In iOS 15 and macOS 12,Private Relay will apply to all web browsing in Safari,all DNS name resolution queries,and a small subset of traffic from apps.

Specifically, this will include all insecure HTTP traffic,such as TCP port 80.

If your app provides a content filteror a parental controls filter,it will still see traffic before it goes through Private Relay,so you can apply your filters just as before.

You can learn more about thisin the "Meet the Screen Time API" session.

Not all networking done by your appoccurs over the public internet,so there are several categories of trafficthat are not affected by Private Relay.

Any connections your app makes over the local networkor to private domain names will be unaffected.

Similarly, if your app provides a network extensionto add VPN or app-proxying capabilities,your extension won't use Private Relayand neither will app traffic that uses your extension.

Traffic that uses a proxy is also exempt.

Next, let's cover what you need to doto make sure your app is ready to work well with Private Relay.

The great news is that for almost every app,you don't need to do anything new!Private Relay will just work.

However, there are some best practices you should know about.

Private Relay works no matter what networking APIyou're using.

For several years, we've recommended that your apps usemodern APIs such as URLSession and NWConnection.

Now, you have one more reasonto adopt them throughout your apps.

These APIs provide you the best toolsto understand how Private Relay is applying to your traffic.

If you use URLSession,you can use the Network Xcode Instrumentto inspect your tasks,even when they are going through Private Relay.

You can learn more about how to do thisin the "Analyze HTTP traffic in Instruments" session.

And you can use metrics APIs in bothURLSession and Network.frameworkto understand when your connections use Private Relay.

In TaskTransactionMetrics,you can check to see if your task used a proxy.

In NWConnection's EstablishmentReport,you can also inspect the timings of DNS name resolutionand each stage of the proxied connection establishment.

Private Relay takes a big step towards making unencryptedand insecure HTTP connections a thing of the past.

You can join in this effort too!If you're still using insecure HTTP --that's connections on TCP port 80 --now is the time to change.

When Private Relay is enabled,these insecure connections will be proxied,which protects them from attackers on a local networkbetween the client and the proxy.

However, it’s still best to have your connectionsbe secure end to end for all users.

To do this, make sure your server supports TLSand change your URLs from http:// to https://.

Your app may have exceptions for App Transport Securityto allow insecure traffic.

You can look at this list to audit what insecure trafficyour app uses and remove these exceptions.

If your app provides functionality based on location,this is also a great time to make sure you're usingAPIs from Core Locationinstead of relying on servers inferring locationfrom IP addresses.

IP address geolocation is often unreliable and inaccurate.

Core Location allows you to specifythe precision of the location you needand is based on explicit user permission.

You can learn more about the latest enhancementsto location accessin the “Apple's privacy pillars in focus” session.

Once you've made sure your app is ready for Private Relay,try it out!Sign into an iPhone, iPad, or Macwith an iCloud+ subscription,and make sure Private Relay is enabledin the iCloud section of the Settings appor in System Preferences.

You can provide feedback with the tag"iCloud Private Relay" in the feedback app.

Now I'll hand it off to my colleague, Delziel.

Delziel Fernandes: Thanks, Tommy.

Hi, I'm Delziel Fernandes,and I'll be talking about how to prepare your serverand manage your network with Private Relay.

If you have servers that your app relies on,or that user access in Safari,there are a few things you can do to prepare for Private Relay.

Your servers can identify connections that come inusing Private Relayby recognizing the proxy IP addresses.

These proxy IP addressesmay be shared by many users within a region.

Each address is mapped to a specific city or region.

So if you apply the correct geo IP mapping databases,your servers will still have the relevant information.

Private Relay guarantees that users can't use the systemto pretend to be from a different region,so you can continue to enforceregion-based access restrictions.

Details about the proxy IP addresseswill be available as an article associated with this session.

Now let's take a look at network connectionsfrom devices using Private Relay.

When a device tries to access a server,it first sets up a network connection to the ingress proxy.

This connection is set up using an IP addressassigned by the network provider.

The device then uses the ingress proxyto forward network requests to the egress proxyusing the ingress proxy IP address.

The egress proxy then forwards these requeststo the destination servers by choosing an IP addressthat maps to the device's city or region.

In general, your servers and websitesshould stop solely relying on client IP addressto determine user location or identity.

If you need location access,consider requesting the user's location explicitly,and only at the granularity you need.

If you need to identify users,request a login or some other form of explicit identificationrather than assuming that the IP address is tied to the identity.

Last, let's cover some tips for managing your networkwhen Private Relay is in use.

If you're running a packet trace on your local networkwhen Private Relay is in use,you'll see some new traffic patterns.

You'll now see a lot more traffic running on UDP port 443.

This is QUIC -- or HTTP/3 --traffic that's being used to communicatewith the Private Relay proxy.

You can make sure your traffic works wellby allowing UDP port 443 on your networkand by making sure your routers or Network Address Translatorsare tuned to handle it well.

You'll also see fewer cleartext UDP DNS queries on your network.

Let's go over a typical network connection requestfrom a device when Private Relay is not in use.

When a device tries to access a server,it first sends a DNS query for the hostname of the server.

Once the hostname is resolved to an IP address,the device then connects to the IP address of the serverusing a transport protocol like TCP.

The device then performs a TCP three-way handshakewith the server followed by a TLS exchangeto set up a secure connection with the server.

But as you can see, without Private Relay,the hostname of the serverand the IP address of the device connecting to the serverare visible by simply observing packets on the network.

With Private Relay,the device first sets up a connection to the ingress Proxyusing QUIC, or HTTP/3.

In packet captures, you will notice UDP packetssent to port 443 of the ingress proxy.

Once the network connection is establishedto the ingress proxy,access to a server is secured within the connectionto the ingress proxy.

On the server end, there is no change in protocol.

The TCP/TLS exchange is similar to trafficwithout Private Relay.

The only difference is that the server seesthe incoming connection from a proxy IP addressinstead of a device's IP address.

Most networks don't need to audit or monitorall user traffic.

However, if you run an enterprise or school network,your network may have policiesthat require intercepting all traffic.

To support this use case, you can block the hostnameof the iCloud Private Relay proxy server.

Then, when a device connects to your network,the user will receive a prompt indicating that Private Relayis blocked on the current network.

They can then choose to either disable Private Relayfor that network or switch networks.

Information about the proxy hostname will be availableas an article associated with this session.

For parental controls,the best solution is to use content filter APIsprovided by NetworkExtension framework.

This allows traffic to be audited on deviceeven when Private Relay is enabled.

For more information on content Filter APIs,watch "Meet the Screen Time API"and "Network extension for the modern Mac" sessions.

To wrap things up,use modern secure networking APIs like URLSessionin your apps;test your apps with Private Relay;and make sure your servers and websites work wellwhen they receive connections routed through Private Relay.

Thanks for watching, everyone!♪

## Code Samples

