# Wwdc2021 10295

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Get ready to optimize your App Store product pageDiscover new ways to make your product page more relevant. Learn how you can use custom product pages to highlight different features and content in your app for different users. Explore how you can optimize your product page by comparing the effectiveness of different visual assets to see what users like most. We'll cover what you need to know, the assets to prepare, and how to get ready to create the most effective product page for your app.ResourcesApp Store ConnectCreating your Product PageGet Your Product Page ReadyHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosTech TalksGet started with custom product pagesGet started with product page optimizationWWDC21Meet in-app events on the App StoreTuesday@WWDC21What's new in App AnalyticsWWDC20Expanding automation with the App Store Connect APIWhat's new in App Store Connect

Discover new ways to make your product page more relevant. Learn how you can use custom product pages to highlight different features and content in your app for different users. Explore how you can optimize your product page by comparing the effectiveness of different visual assets to see what users like most. We'll cover what you need to know, the assets to prepare, and how to get ready to create the most effective product page for your app.

App Store Connect

Creating your Product Page

Get Your Product Page Ready

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Get started with custom product pages

Get started with product page optimization

Meet in-app events on the App Store

Tuesday@WWDC21

What's new in App Analytics

Expanding automation with the App Store Connect API

What's new in App Store Connect

Search this video…♪ Bass music playing ♪♪Prabha Bashyam: Hello, my name is Prabha,and I'm on the Apple Media Products Engineering team.In this session,I'm going to tell you about some exciting new featuresto optimize your App Store product page on iPhone and iPad.Today the product page is the home for your app.It's where users learn all about your app,before they decide to download it.You use the app icon, name, and subtitleto make a great first impression.And you share even more details with app preview videos,screenshots, promotional text, and the description.Later this year, you'll be able to use custom product pagesand product page optimization to make your product pageeven more relevant and effective for your audience.For each of these new capabilities,I'll provide details on how the feature worksand share more about what you can do to get ready for them.With custom product pages,the product page becomes even more flexible.Custom product pages let you showcase different featuresand content for different users.Each one can have a different set of app preview videos,screenshots, and promotional text.Each page is fully localizable,and each is shareable using its own unique URL.You'll also be able to view metrics for each page,including impressions, downloads, and conversion ratein App Analytics.This information lets you know how effective each page isat driving users to download your app.You will also be able to monitor what happens after the download.App Analytics will provide retention dataand average proceeds per paying userfor each custom product page,so you can see how certain pages are converting users.You can create up to 35 different custom product pagesfor your app.So to prepare for this feature,think carefully about how you want to use them.Consider the rich content and engaging featuresyour app has to offer and how you can highlight them.For an app like Mountain Climber,we could choose to showcase the live streaming functionalityto appeal to peopleinterested in following climbers in real timeor streaming their own journeys up to the summit.And we could create another custom product pagehighlighting the GPS tracking featureto appeal to people interested in planning a climbwith a group of friends.If you develop a game, you may want to create oneto highlight your most engaging charactersor popular gameplay modes.If your app features video content,you can consider creating custom product pagesfor specific shows or channels.No matter how you want to use custom product pages,here's how you can get ready for this feature.First, plan your goals.Have a clear objective in mind before you set up your page.Remember you can create up to 35 custom product pages,so carefully plan how you want to use them.Next, consider the features and content in your appand the ones you want to highlight on these pages.Lastly, begin preparing your metadata.Remember each page can havea different set of app preview videos, screenshots,and promotional text,so you can get started now on creating new visual assetsand text for your pages.Then, when the feature launches later this year,you'll be ready to create your pagesand submit the metadata in App Store Connect.And you'll be able to do thiswithout having to submit a new version of your app.Once approved, you'll be able to share your custom product pages,using their own unique URL.Of course, the users who arrive on your default product pagethrough searching or browsing the App Storeare also incredibly important.That's why we're introducing product page optimization.With this feature, you can set up and test different treatmentsof your default pageto determine which one best resonates with your users.For example, given the original page with the blue iconand the treatment page with the red icon,by splitting the traffic going to each pageand measuring download conversion on each,you may learn that the treatment page actually performs better,suggesting you may want to apply the treatment metadatato your default product page to improve overall conversion.For your treatment page,you have the flexibility to try a different app icon,or you can try different app preview videos or screenshots.And each test can have up to three treatments,like in this example with three icon color styles.You can choose the percentage of your audiencethat will see one of the treatments.For example, if you choose 30%,then each of the three treatments would get 10%of the total traffic.When running a test that involves the app icon,we've made sure that all users who download your appwill have a consistent experience.After all, your app icon is an important wayto appeal to App Store usersand stand out on their home screens.So for anyone that sees your test iconon the product page, they'll see that same iconwhen they download your app on their device.To allow for this, you'll include the variant icon assetsin your app binary for the version of your appthat you want to test,including all sizes for the applicable devicesand the 1024x1024 version for the App Store.You'll also have the ability to run testsin only specific localizations.For example, if your product pageis currently localized in English, Japanese, and Korean,you can choose to run your tests in Japanese only.This means that any users that seethe English or Korean localized versions of your product pagewill not be included in the test.This gives you the flexibility to focus your testif your treatment is only relevantfor a subset of your localizations.As the test runs, you'll be able to monitor the results,including metrics for impressions,downloads, conversion, and the improvementthat each treatment gets against the baseline.For more details on what's coming in App Analytics,check out "What's New in App Analytics".After reviewing the results,you'll be able to apply one of the treatmentsto your app's default page to let all users seethe most effective version of your page.Note that if the treatment you want to applyfeatures a different app icon, you'll apply that iconby updating the default icon in the binaryof the next version of your app.With that overview,let's recap what you need to get ready toenhance your App Store product page.Before running a test, makesure to form a strong hypothesis. For example, you may predictthat changing your app icon to a differentstyle will drive better conversionin certain locales. Make sure to haveall the necessary videos and screenshots ready to gowhen setting up your test.They will be reviewed by App Review before your test canbegin, but you can submit them without creating a new app version.And remember, to test a variationof your app icon, you'll need toinclude the icon assets in the binary of yourapp version that is currently live, so make sure to prepare yourapp releases accordingly.So these are the new ways you can optimize yourApp Store product page.Custom product pages gives you the flexibility to highlight specific content andfeatures in your app. Product page optimization helpsyou determine the visual assets that your users find most appealing.Lastly, all the functionalitywe just discussed for both features will be supportedby the App Store Connect API. A full API spec will be publishedlater this year. We look forwardto launching these features later this year and seeing how you use them to optimizeyour product pages.  Thank you for watching and have a great WWDC!♪

♪ Bass music playing ♪♪Prabha Bashyam: Hello, my name is Prabha,and I'm on the Apple Media Products Engineering team.

In this session,I'm going to tell you about some exciting new featuresto optimize your App Store product page on iPhone and iPad.

Today the product page is the home for your app.

It's where users learn all about your app,before they decide to download it.

You use the app icon, name, and subtitleto make a great first impression.

And you share even more details with app preview videos,screenshots, promotional text, and the description.

Later this year, you'll be able to use custom product pagesand product page optimization to make your product pageeven more relevant and effective for your audience.

For each of these new capabilities,I'll provide details on how the feature worksand share more about what you can do to get ready for them.

With custom product pages,the product page becomes even more flexible.

Custom product pages let you showcase different featuresand content for different users.

Each one can have a different set of app preview videos,screenshots, and promotional text.

Each page is fully localizable,and each is shareable using its own unique URL.

You'll also be able to view metrics for each page,including impressions, downloads, and conversion ratein App Analytics.

This information lets you know how effective each page isat driving users to download your app.

You will also be able to monitor what happens after the download.

App Analytics will provide retention dataand average proceeds per paying userfor each custom product page,so you can see how certain pages are converting users.

You can create up to 35 different custom product pagesfor your app.

So to prepare for this feature,think carefully about how you want to use them.

Consider the rich content and engaging featuresyour app has to offer and how you can highlight them.

For an app like Mountain Climber,we could choose to showcase the live streaming functionalityto appeal to peopleinterested in following climbers in real timeor streaming their own journeys up to the summit.

And we could create another custom product pagehighlighting the GPS tracking featureto appeal to people interested in planning a climbwith a group of friends.

If you develop a game, you may want to create oneto highlight your most engaging charactersor popular gameplay modes.

If your app features video content,you can consider creating custom product pagesfor specific shows or channels.

No matter how you want to use custom product pages,here's how you can get ready for this feature.

First, plan your goals.

Have a clear objective in mind before you set up your page.

Remember you can create up to 35 custom product pages,so carefully plan how you want to use them.

Next, consider the features and content in your appand the ones you want to highlight on these pages.

Lastly, begin preparing your metadata.

Remember each page can havea different set of app preview videos, screenshots,and promotional text,so you can get started now on creating new visual assetsand text for your pages.

Then, when the feature launches later this year,you'll be ready to create your pagesand submit the metadata in App Store Connect.

And you'll be able to do thiswithout having to submit a new version of your app.

Once approved, you'll be able to share your custom product pages,using their own unique URL.

Of course, the users who arrive on your default product pagethrough searching or browsing the App Storeare also incredibly important.

That's why we're introducing product page optimization.

With this feature, you can set up and test different treatmentsof your default pageto determine which one best resonates with your users.

For example, given the original page with the blue iconand the treatment page with the red icon,by splitting the traffic going to each pageand measuring download conversion on each,you may learn that the treatment page actually performs better,suggesting you may want to apply the treatment metadatato your default product page to improve overall conversion.

For your treatment page,you have the flexibility to try a different app icon,or you can try different app preview videos or screenshots.

And each test can have up to three treatments,like in this example with three icon color styles.

You can choose the percentage of your audiencethat will see one of the treatments.

For example, if you choose 30%,then each of the three treatments would get 10%of the total traffic.

When running a test that involves the app icon,we've made sure that all users who download your appwill have a consistent experience.

After all, your app icon is an important wayto appeal to App Store usersand stand out on their home screens.

So for anyone that sees your test iconon the product page, they'll see that same iconwhen they download your app on their device.

To allow for this, you'll include the variant icon assetsin your app binary for the version of your appthat you want to test,including all sizes for the applicable devicesand the 1024x1024 version for the App Store.

You'll also have the ability to run testsin only specific localizations.

For example, if your product pageis currently localized in English, Japanese, and Korean,you can choose to run your tests in Japanese only.

This means that any users that seethe English or Korean localized versions of your product pagewill not be included in the test.

This gives you the flexibility to focus your testif your treatment is only relevantfor a subset of your localizations.

As the test runs, you'll be able to monitor the results,including metrics for impressions,downloads, conversion, and the improvementthat each treatment gets against the baseline.

For more details on what's coming in App Analytics,check out "What's New in App Analytics".

After reviewing the results,you'll be able to apply one of the treatmentsto your app's default page to let all users seethe most effective version of your page.

Note that if the treatment you want to applyfeatures a different app icon, you'll apply that iconby updating the default icon in the binaryof the next version of your app.

With that overview,let's recap what you need to get ready toenhance your App Store product page.

Before running a test, makesure to form a strong hypothesis. For example, you may predictthat changing your app icon to a differentstyle will drive better conversionin certain locales. Make sure to haveall the necessary videos and screenshots ready to gowhen setting up your test.

They will be reviewed by App Review before your test canbegin, but you can submit them without creating a new app version.

And remember, to test a variationof your app icon, you'll need toinclude the icon assets in the binary of yourapp version that is currently live, so make sure to prepare yourapp releases accordingly.

So these are the new ways you can optimize yourApp Store product page.

Custom product pages gives you the flexibility to highlight specific content andfeatures in your app. Product page optimization helpsyou determine the visual assets that your users find most appealing.

Lastly, all the functionalitywe just discussed for both features will be supportedby the App Store Connect API. A full API spec will be publishedlater this year. We look forwardto launching these features later this year and seeing how you use them to optimizeyour product pages.  Thank you for watching and have a great WWDC!♪

## Code Samples

