# Wwdc2021 10324

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Thursday@WWDC21Where did the WWDC week go? We'll tell you: Check out everything you missed on Thursday and tune in for a quick preview of our final day at Dub Dub.ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC21Bring Recurring Leaderboards to your gameDesign for spatial interactionExtract document data using VisionMeditation for fidgety skepticsMeet privacy-preserving ad attributionOptimize for 5G networksPractice audio haptic designTailor the VoiceOver experience in your data-rich appsWWDC21 Apple Design AwardsWWDC21 Apple Design Awards (ASL)

Where did the WWDC week go? We'll tell you: Check out everything you missed on Thursday and tune in for a quick preview of our final day at Dub Dub.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Bring Recurring Leaderboards to your game

Design for spatial interaction

Extract document data using Vision

Meditation for fidgety skeptics

Meet privacy-preserving ad attribution

Optimize for 5G networks

Practice audio haptic design

Tailor the VoiceOver experience in your data-rich apps

WWDC21 Apple Design Awards

WWDC21 Apple Design Awards (ASL)

Search this video…Your daily recap at WWDC starts in...three... two... one... Go!♪ "Better Days (Instrumental)" by DARKMINDS ♪We found out how to easily extract document datawith the Vision framework.- So I created a little appin which I can now scan our survey cards.- And we learned how to design for spatial interaction.Then app creator Dan Harris,and his book coauthor, Jeff Warren,shared stories and meditation techniques for fidgety skeptics.- We've been doing a lot of talking about meditation.I do think it would make sense to just take a quick breakand do five minutes!You game for that, Jeff? - Oh, yes I am.- Oh, and we also learned about the importanceof protecting people's privacy online.- We recognize the importanceof providing a more private way to measure ads.- And a big congratulations to the winnersof the Apple Design Awards.Your apps and games are just...<Exactly.Tomorrow will be the last day at Dub Dub.Check it out.♪So many colors!Bye-bye!♪

Your daily recap at WWDC starts in...

three... two... one... Go!♪ "Better Days (Instrumental)" by DARKMINDS ♪We found out how to easily extract document datawith the Vision framework.

- So I created a little appin which I can now scan our survey cards.

- And we learned how to design for spatial interaction.

Then app creator Dan Harris,and his book coauthor, Jeff Warren,shared stories and meditation techniques for fidgety skeptics.

- We've been doing a lot of talking about meditation.

I do think it would make sense to just take a quick breakand do five minutes!You game for that, Jeff? - Oh, yes I am.

- Oh, and we also learned about the importanceof protecting people's privacy online.

- We recognize the importanceof providing a more private way to measure ads.

- And a big congratulations to the winnersof the Apple Design Awards.

Your apps and games are just...

<Exactly.

Tomorrow will be the last day at Dub Dub.

Check it out.

♪So many colors!Bye-bye!♪

## Code Samples

