# Wwdc2021 10143

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Explore HLS variants in AVFoundationDiscover how you can use AVFoundation APIs to highlight different variants of your content within your app. We'll show you how you can inspect HLS content using these APIs for different video characteristics, including attributes like SDR/HDR, FPS, and the like. And we'll explore the AVAssetVariant, which represents streaming and offline content.ResourcesHTTP Live Streaming - OverviewHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC21Immerse your app in Spatial AudioTransition media gaplessly with HLSWhat’s new in AVFoundationWWDC20Discover how to download and play HLS offline

Discover how you can use AVFoundation APIs to highlight different variants of your content within your app. We'll show you how you can inspect HLS content using these APIs for different video characteristics, including attributes like SDR/HDR, FPS, and the like. And we'll explore the AVAssetVariant, which represents streaming and offline content.

HTTP Live Streaming - Overview

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Immerse your app in Spatial Audio

Transition media gaplessly with HLS

What’s new in AVFoundation

Discover how to download and play HLS offline

Search this video…♪ Bass music playing ♪Nishant Nelogal: Hello, and welcome to WWDC.My name is Nishant, and I’m an engineeron the AVFoundation team.Today, we will be looking at HLS Variants.First, we will look at how you can inspect HLS variants,using AVFoundation APIs,and later on, we will see how we can use the HLS variantswith downloads.So let's start with variant inspection.You all must be familiarwith what a typical master playlist looks like.Here is an example.In this particular playlist, we have two variants.One of the variants is an SDR variant with stereo audio,and the other one is a Dolby Vision variantwith Dolby Atmos audio.The asset representing this particular playlistmay be presented something like this in your app.Looking closely, you see that the asset has 4K,Dolby Vision, and Dolby Atmos badges.Earlier, you had to get such information out of the band.Now in iOS 15,you can directly inspect the HLS playlist to infer them.For that, you start with an AVURLAssetpointing to the location of your master playlist.Later on, you can obtain the HLS playlistvia the variant's property.This AVAssetVariant, as we see here,represents an HLS variant as is from the master playlist.So it has multiple propertiesrepresenting different media attributes.Some of the attributes, such as the media bitrate,can be accessed directly.Other attributes,such as those related to video and audio renditions,are grouped together in their own subclasses.They are called as VideoAttributesand AudioAttributes, respectively.As you see, each of them has relevant properties,which you can use to understand your asset.Now you know how to inspect HLS variants in AVFoundation.Let's see how we can use them with downloads.Downloading HLS content for offline playbackhas been supported since 2016.If you're not familiar with HLS download APIs,I would suggest you check out our earlier talk on the topicfrom WWDC 2020.In iOS 15, we are taking our HLS download APIsand making them even more powerful.Typically, you would like to influence the HLS variantsselected for the download.This may be due to business requirements,or you just want to provide more choice to your users.Before, you could provide such inputvia downloadTask options.We had an option for HDR, an option for lossless audio,and a few other attributes.In iOS 15, we are expanding the variant selectionwith the use of NSPredicates.You may be already familiar with using predicates from Core Data.If not, don’t worry, you will learn about them today.So to get started,let me introduce the variant qualifier interface.This interface allows you to specify your variant preferencesto AVFoundation.And, as I said, they can be constructedusing NSPredicates.Let’s understand by looking at few examples.Here, we have a NSPredicate which expresses peak bitrateto be less than five megabits.You use this to construct your variant qualifier,which instructs AVFoundationto prefer variants under five megabits.Simple enough, right?Let’s take a look at another example.Here we create an NSPredicate for HDR video range.And similarly as before,you can construct a variant qualifier for it.You can also combine multiple predicatesto create a compound predicateand use them to create your variant qualifier.Any property on variant can be usedto create a predicate against.For properties such as audio channel count,which cannot be easily expressedusing the predicate format string,we have custom constructors.You can look them up in our header docfor variant qualifier.Once you have your variant qualifier,you use it to create something called as content configuration.Each content configuration represents a set of video,audio, and subtitle renditions.OK, let's understand with an example.Here is the variant qualifierwhich combines the two predicates we saw earlier.Eh, this is compounding. Ha-ha.It informs AVFoundation to prefer HDR variantsunder five megabits.We also have a set of media selectionsrepresenting English and French audio,and English subtitle renditions.Both of these can be usedto create a content configuration object.You can create multiple of these content configurationsand provide it to the downloadTask.These multiple content configurations are tied togetherby the download configuration interface.This is the root which holds everything together.It is created with an AVURLAsset and needs an asset name,and optionally, an image.The asset name and image are displayed in the Settings app.This allows your users to manage all of their downloadsin one place in the Settings app.And of course, the downloadTask can be configuredwith multiple content configurations.Looking closely,one of the content configurationswill be designated as primary and the rest will be auxiliary.The difference between the two isyou typically want to download a primary set of video, audio,and subtitle renditions and then complement themwith additional audio or subtitle renditions.By specifying your additional renditionsas auxiliary content configurations,you instruct AVFoundation to optimizeand avoid downloading multiple video renditions.It becomes more clear as we go over an example.Here is the complete example.First, we start by creating a download configurationwith AVURLAsset and a title.The primary content configurationis the same one we saw earlier.It is configured to download HDR variants under five megabits,with English and French audio and English subtitle renditions.In this particular example, we would like to complement itwith an auxiliary content configurationto download English audio in lossless format.Now we have both our content configurations,which we want to download.Make sure to setoptimizesAuxiliary ContentConfigurations to true.By the way, it is true by default,and it allows AVFoundation to choose lossless variant,such that the lossless variant’s video renditionis the same as the primary content configuration.Setting it to false may cause lossless variantto be evaluated independently,which may cause duplicate video renditions to be downloaded.This may increase your download size, which we don’t want.OK, once you have the download configuration,you can use it to create the downloadTask.You resume the downloadTask to start the download.Starting in iOS 15,you can also observe the progress of the downloadTaskusing NSProgress interface.The NSProgress object is KVO-observable,and you can use it to update your user interface.Moving on.We understand that some of you may have business logicfor selecting variants,which may be harder to express via predicates.For such cases, you can also chooseto choose the variants you want to download explicitly.Here in this example,we have already picked our primary and auxiliary variantand the media selections to go with it.We can instruct AVFoundation to download them as is,by creating a qualifier with the variant directly.Be careful to select variants so that they are playableon the device where they are downloaded.That's all we have today, folks.To wrap up,we looked at how you can inspect HLS variantsand use them to configure the downloadTask.Along the way, we encountered different interfacesfor downloadTask configuration.The first one was variant qualifier.This is used to express your variant preferences.Then we saw content configuration interface.The content configuration ties togetheryour variant preferences and your media selection choices.Finally, we saw the download configuration.The download configuration is the root interfacewhich ties everything together.Last, but not the least, we also learned thatyou can monitor your downloadTask using NSProgress.For more information, check our header docs.They're very well commented.Thank you for watching and bye-bye!♪

♪ Bass music playing ♪Nishant Nelogal: Hello, and welcome to WWDC.

My name is Nishant, and I’m an engineeron the AVFoundation team.

Today, we will be looking at HLS Variants.

First, we will look at how you can inspect HLS variants,using AVFoundation APIs,and later on, we will see how we can use the HLS variantswith downloads.

So let's start with variant inspection.

You all must be familiarwith what a typical master playlist looks like.

Here is an example.

In this particular playlist, we have two variants.

One of the variants is an SDR variant with stereo audio,and the other one is a Dolby Vision variantwith Dolby Atmos audio.

The asset representing this particular playlistmay be presented something like this in your app.

Looking closely, you see that the asset has 4K,Dolby Vision, and Dolby Atmos badges.

Earlier, you had to get such information out of the band.

Now in iOS 15,you can directly inspect the HLS playlist to infer them.

For that, you start with an AVURLAssetpointing to the location of your master playlist.

Later on, you can obtain the HLS playlistvia the variant's property.

This AVAssetVariant, as we see here,represents an HLS variant as is from the master playlist.

So it has multiple propertiesrepresenting different media attributes.

Some of the attributes, such as the media bitrate,can be accessed directly.

Other attributes,such as those related to video and audio renditions,are grouped together in their own subclasses.

They are called as VideoAttributesand AudioAttributes, respectively.

As you see, each of them has relevant properties,which you can use to understand your asset.

Now you know how to inspect HLS variants in AVFoundation.

Let's see how we can use them with downloads.

Downloading HLS content for offline playbackhas been supported since 2016.

If you're not familiar with HLS download APIs,I would suggest you check out our earlier talk on the topicfrom WWDC 2020.

In iOS 15, we are taking our HLS download APIsand making them even more powerful.

Typically, you would like to influence the HLS variantsselected for the download.

This may be due to business requirements,or you just want to provide more choice to your users.

Before, you could provide such inputvia downloadTask options.

We had an option for HDR, an option for lossless audio,and a few other attributes.

In iOS 15, we are expanding the variant selectionwith the use of NSPredicates.

You may be already familiar with using predicates from Core Data.

If not, don’t worry, you will learn about them today.

So to get started,let me introduce the variant qualifier interface.

This interface allows you to specify your variant preferencesto AVFoundation.

And, as I said, they can be constructedusing NSPredicates.

Let’s understand by looking at few examples.

Here, we have a NSPredicate which expresses peak bitrateto be less than five megabits.

You use this to construct your variant qualifier,which instructs AVFoundationto prefer variants under five megabits.

Simple enough, right?Let’s take a look at another example.

Here we create an NSPredicate for HDR video range.

And similarly as before,you can construct a variant qualifier for it.

You can also combine multiple predicatesto create a compound predicateand use them to create your variant qualifier.

Any property on variant can be usedto create a predicate against.

For properties such as audio channel count,which cannot be easily expressedusing the predicate format string,we have custom constructors.

You can look them up in our header docfor variant qualifier.

Once you have your variant qualifier,you use it to create something called as content configuration.

Each content configuration represents a set of video,audio, and subtitle renditions.

OK, let's understand with an example.

Here is the variant qualifierwhich combines the two predicates we saw earlier.

Eh, this is compounding. Ha-ha.

It informs AVFoundation to prefer HDR variantsunder five megabits.

We also have a set of media selectionsrepresenting English and French audio,and English subtitle renditions.

Both of these can be usedto create a content configuration object.

You can create multiple of these content configurationsand provide it to the downloadTask.

These multiple content configurations are tied togetherby the download configuration interface.

This is the root which holds everything together.

It is created with an AVURLAsset and needs an asset name,and optionally, an image.

The asset name and image are displayed in the Settings app.

This allows your users to manage all of their downloadsin one place in the Settings app.

And of course, the downloadTask can be configuredwith multiple content configurations.

Looking closely,one of the content configurationswill be designated as primary and the rest will be auxiliary.

The difference between the two isyou typically want to download a primary set of video, audio,and subtitle renditions and then complement themwith additional audio or subtitle renditions.

By specifying your additional renditionsas auxiliary content configurations,you instruct AVFoundation to optimizeand avoid downloading multiple video renditions.

It becomes more clear as we go over an example.

Here is the complete example.

First, we start by creating a download configurationwith AVURLAsset and a title.

The primary content configurationis the same one we saw earlier.

It is configured to download HDR variants under five megabits,with English and French audio and English subtitle renditions.

In this particular example, we would like to complement itwith an auxiliary content configurationto download English audio in lossless format.

Now we have both our content configurations,which we want to download.

Make sure to setoptimizesAuxiliary ContentConfigurations to true.

By the way, it is true by default,and it allows AVFoundation to choose lossless variant,such that the lossless variant’s video renditionis the same as the primary content configuration.

Setting it to false may cause lossless variantto be evaluated independently,which may cause duplicate video renditions to be downloaded.

This may increase your download size, which we don’t want.

OK, once you have the download configuration,you can use it to create the downloadTask.

You resume the downloadTask to start the download.

Starting in iOS 15,you can also observe the progress of the downloadTaskusing NSProgress interface.

The NSProgress object is KVO-observable,and you can use it to update your user interface.

Moving on.

We understand that some of you may have business logicfor selecting variants,which may be harder to express via predicates.

For such cases, you can also chooseto choose the variants you want to download explicitly.

Here in this example,we have already picked our primary and auxiliary variantand the media selections to go with it.

We can instruct AVFoundation to download them as is,by creating a qualifier with the variant directly.

Be careful to select variants so that they are playableon the device where they are downloaded.

That's all we have today, folks.

To wrap up,we looked at how you can inspect HLS variantsand use them to configure the downloadTask.

Along the way, we encountered different interfacesfor downloadTask configuration.

The first one was variant qualifier.

This is used to express your variant preferences.

Then we saw content configuration interface.

The content configuration ties togetheryour variant preferences and your media selection choices.

Finally, we saw the download configuration.

The download configuration is the root interfacewhich ties everything together.

Last, but not the least, we also learned thatyou can monitor your downloadTask using NSProgress.

For more information, check our header docs.

They're very well commented.

Thank you for watching and bye-bye!♪

0:40 -HLS Master Playlist

3:38 -Peak bitrate cap predicate

3:55 -HDR predicate

4:46 -Content configuration

6:29 -Download configuration

7:42 -Download task

8:10 -Direct variant selection

## Code Samples

```swift
#
EXTM3U

#
EXT
-
X
-
VERSION
:
7

#
EXT
-
X
-
INDEPENDENT
-
SEGMENTS


#
EXT
-
X
-
MEDIA
:
TYPE
=
AUDIO
,
NAME
=
"English"
,
GROUP
-
ID
=
"stereo"
,
LANGUAGE
=
"en"
,
DEFAULT
=
YES
, 
AUTOSELECT
=
YES
,
CHANNELS
=
"2"
,
URI
=
"en_stereo.m3u8"

#
EXT
-
X
-
MEDIA
:
TYPE
=
AUDIO
,
NAME
=
"French"
,
GROUP
-
ID
=
"stereo"
,
LANGUAGE
=
"fr"
,
DEFAULT
=
NO
, 
AUTOSELECT
=
YES
,
CHANNELS
=
"2"
,
URI
=
"fr_stereo.m3u8"


#
EXT
-
X
-
MEDIA
:
TYPE
=
AUDIO
,
NAME
=
"English"
,
GROUP
-
ID
=
"atmos"
,
LANGUAGE
=
"en"
,
DEFAULT
=
YES
, 
AUTOSELECT
=
YES
,
CHANNELS
=
"16/JOC"
,
URI
=
"en_atmos.m3u8"

#
EXT
-
X
-
MEDIA
:
TYPE
=
AUDIO
,
NAME
=
"French"
,
GROUP
-
ID
=
"atmos"
,
LANGUAGE
=
"fr"
,
DEFAULT
=
NO
, 
AUTOSELECT
=
YES
,
CHANNELS
=
"16/JOC"
,
URI
=
"fr_atmos.m3u8"


#
EXT
-
X
-
STREAM
-
INF
:
BANDWIDTH
=
14516883
,
VIDEO
-
RANGE
=
SDR
,
CODECS
=
"avc1.64001f,mp4a.40.5"
, 
AUDIO
=
"stereo"
,
FRAME
-
RATE
=
23.976
,
RESOLUTION
=
1920x1080
sdr_variant.m3u8

#
EXT
-
X
-
STREAM
-
INF
:
BANDWIDTH
=
34516883
,
VIDEO
-
RANGE
=
PQ
,
CODECS
=
"dvh1.05.06,ec-3"
, 
AUDIO
=
"atmos"
,
FRAME
-
RATE
=
23.976
,
RESOLUTION
=
3840x1920
dovi_variant.m3u8
```

```swift
let
 peakBitRateCap 
=
 
NSPredicate
(format: 
"peakBitRate < 5000000"
)


let
 peakBitRateCapQualifier 
=
 
AVAssetVariantQualifier
(predicate: peakBitRateCap)
```

```swift
let
 hdrOnlyPredicate 
=
 
NSPredicate
(format: 
"videoAttributes.videoRange == %@"
, argumentArray: [
AVVideoRange
.pq])


let
 hdrOnlyQualifier 
=
 
AVAssetVariantQualifier
(predicate: hdrOnlyPredicate)
```

```swift
let
 variantPref 
=
 
AVAssetVariantQualifier
(predicate: 
NSPredicate
(format: 
"videoAttributes.videoRange == %@ && peakBitRate < 5000000"
, argumentArray: [
AVVideoRange
.pq]))


let
 myMediaSelections : [
AVMediaSelection
] 
=
 [enAudioMS, frAudioMS, enLegibleMS] 
//English, French audio and English subtitle renditions 



let
 contentConfig 
=
 
AVAssetDownloadContentConfiguration
()

contentConfig.variantQualifiers 
=
 [variantPref]

contentConfig.mediaSelections 
=
 myMediaSelections
```

```swift
let
 asset 
=
 
AVURLAsset
(url: 
URL
(string: 
"http://example.com/master.m3u8"
)
!
)

let
 dwConfig 
=
 
AVAssetDownloadConfiguration
(asset: asset, title: 
"my-title"
)


/* Primary content config */


let
 varPref 
=
 
NSPredicate
(format: 
"videoAttributes.videoRange == %@ && peakBitRate < 5000000"
, argumentArray: [
AVVideoRange
.pq])

let
 varQf 
=
 
AVAssetVariantQualifier
(predicate: varPref)

dwConfig.primaryContentConfiguration.variantQualifiers 
=
 [varQf]
dwConfig.primaryContentConfiguration.mediaSelections 
=
 [enAudioMS, frAudioMS, enLegibleMS] 
//English, French audio and English subtitle renditions 



/* Aux content config */


let
 auxVarPref 
=
 
NSPredicate
(format: 
"%d IN audioAttributes.formatIDs"
, argumentArray: [kAudioFormatAppleLossless])

let
 auxVarQf 
=
 
AVAssetVariantQualifier
(predicate: auxVarPref)


let
 auxContentConfig 
=
 
AVAssetDownloadContentConfiguration
()
auxContentConfig.variantQualifiers 
=
 [auxVarQf]
auxContentConfig.mediaSelections 
=
 [enAudioMS] 
//english audio

dwConfig.auxiliaryContentConfigurations 
=
 [auxContentConfig]

dwConfig.optimizesAuxiliaryContentConfigurations 
=
 
true
```

```swift
let
 myAssetDownloadDelegate 
=
 
MyDownloadDelegate
()

let
 avurlsession 
=
 
AVAssetDownloadURLSession
(configuration: 
URLSessionConfiguration
.background(withIdentifier: 
"my-background-session"
), assetDownloadDelegate: myAssetDownloadDelegate, delegateQueue: 
OperationQueue
.main)


let
 asset 
=
 
AVURLAsset
(url: 
URL
(string: 
"http://example.com/master.m3u8"
)
!
)

let
 dwConfig 
=
 
AVAssetDownloadConfiguration
(asset: asset, title: “my
-
title”)


...



let
 downloadTask 
=
 avurlsession.makeAssetDownloadTask(downloadConfiguration: dwConfig)

downloadTask.resume()


let
 progress 
=
 downloadTask.progress
```

```swift
/* Example for direct variant selection */



let
 asset 
=
 
AVURLAsset
(url: 
URL
(string: 
"http://example.com/master.m3u8"
)
!
)

let
 dwConfig 
=
 
AVAssetDownloadConfiguration
(asset: asset, title: 
"my-title"
)


/* Primary content config */


let
 myVariant : 
AVAssetVariant
 
=
 
...


let
 myMediaSelections : [
AVMediaSelection
] 
=
 
...



let
 variantQf 
=
 
AVAssetVariantQualifier
(variant: myVariant)

dwConfig.primaryContentConfiguration.variantQualifiers 
=
 [variantQf]
dwConfig.primaryContentConfiguration.mediaSelections 
=
 myMediaSelections


/* Aux content config */


let
 myAuxVariant : 
AVAssetVariant
 
=
 
...


let
 myAuxMediaSelections : [
AVMediaSelection
] 
=
 
...



let
 auxVariantQf 
=
 
AVAssetVariantQualifier
(variant: myAuxVariant)


let
 auxContentConfig 
=
 
AVAssetDownloadContentConfiguration
()
auxContentConfig.variantQualifiers 
=
 [auxVariantQf]
auxContentConfig.mediaSelections 
=
 myAuxMediaSelections
dwConfig.auxiliaryContentConfigurations 
=
 [auxContentConfig]
```

