# Wwdc2021 10261

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Faster and simpler notarization for Mac appsNotarization works in tandem with macOS to help people safely download software for their Mac outside of the App Store. Discover how notarytool can help you quickly and easily notarize your Mac app for distribution. We'll show you how you can now notarize your apps with just a single command, and how to bring notarization into your continuous integration workflows.

To learn about the notarization workflow, watch the 2019 video "All About Notarization."ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC22What’s new in notarization for Mac appsWWDC21Distribute apps in Xcode with cloud signingWWDC19All About Notarization

Notarization works in tandem with macOS to help people safely download software for their Mac outside of the App Store. Discover how notarytool can help you quickly and easily notarize your Mac app for distribution. We'll show you how you can now notarize your apps with just a single command, and how to bring notarization into your continuous integration workflows.

To learn about the notarization workflow, watch the 2019 video "All About Notarization."

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

What’s new in notarization for Mac apps

Distribute apps in Xcode with cloud signing

All About Notarization

Search this video…♪ Bass music playing ♪♪Olivia Hillman: Hi, I'm Olivia Hillman,and I'm a security engineerworking on Apple's Notary service.I'm going to talk to youabout some exciting work we've been doingto make notarizing Mac apps faster and simpler.I'll start with a brief overview of what the Notary service is.Then I'll dive into our new tooland I'll share how you can get started using it.So, let's begin!Notarization is for Mac developersthat distribute their software outside of the App Store,and this talk specifically is for those of youthat use the existing command-line tool, altoolto interact with Notary.If you're notarizing with Xcode only,your workflow isn't changing.Mac developers submit their software to be notarizedbefore it's distributed, so it can run on a user's Mac.This notarization process gives users confidencethat software running on their machineshas been checked by Apple for malicious components.Notarization has been helping to protect customerssince macOS 10.14.And now, we've made it faster and simpler to use.For more background about Notary,check out our in-depth 2019 talk "All about Notarization".Let's take a look at the Notary workflow.Developers build their softwareand send it to us for notarization.The Notary service runs automated analysisthat scans the software for malicious contentand checks for code signing issues.If there are no issues, Notary publishes a ticketto be retrieved by users’ Macs when they launch the software.And then we return the result to your developer team.We're committed to completing this process within 15 minutesfor 98 percent of Notary submissions,and most complete in under five.You can then provide your app for users to download,and macOS checks the softwarebefore it can run on a user's machine.We care about protecting customers from malwareand making it easier for developers to submit to Notaryand even faster for users to get access to new software.And with that mission in mind,I'm thrilled to share with you the new way to notarize.Introducing notarytool.notarytool provides a one-line commandfor submitting your software and waiting for your result.We've introduced targeted enhancementsfocused specifically on the needs of Mac developersthat are notarizing software independentlywithout the need for altool's App Store support.These improvements make notarization faster and easier,all while we continue to protect customers from malware.Developers depend on the Notary service,so we want it to be as reliable as possibleand available whenever developers need it.In addition to the changes to the client software,we've also streamlined the service.In fact, we've built a new dedicated service backendthat's focused on reliability just for Notary.The new service is designed to bring you improvementsin end-to-end processing speed,and we're excited for you to try it out.We know you may be waiting as your submission uploads,so we've worked hard to make upload speedup to four times faster for most developers.To take advantage of these incredible performanceand reliability gains,be sure to transition from altool to notarytool.notarytool is easy to use and carefully designedwith your notarization workflow in mind.We've heard your feedback and we wanted to improvethe developer interaction with a simpler clientand a single line to get things done.So let's say I'm a developerand I've just finished building the latest bug fix to my app.I want to get this published as soon as possible.The quickest way for me to accomplish thiswith altool on the command lineis with a polling loop, like this.I first submit my application, and when that's done,I start to continuously poll for statusuntil processing is complete.Now, with notarytool,we've added a wait flag to the clientthat allows you to submitand wait for your notarization resultall in one command.As soon as your job completes,the program will display the results of your submission.Once you receive your submission result,you're only one command away from viewing your Notary logusing the new client.You'll be able to view details about your resultdirectly from notarytool,including any reasons why your applicationmay not be notarized.We've also added a brand-new featurethat's accessible to you when you submit to Notary:webhook notifications.This feature allows you to specify a URLfor a server callbackas soon as we finish processing your software.By specifying a webhook URL when you submit,you can seamlessly add notarizationinto your continuous integration workflowsby automatically retrieving your result and your Notary logwhen you receive a notification.We can't wait for you to start using this powerful new tool,and we look forward to receiving your feedback about notarytooland this new developer experience.notarytool is the new clientfor interacting with the Notary serviceand is distributed with Xcode.altool isn't going away,but is now deprecated for use with Notary.notarytool makes your workflow faster and simplerwith a client that's dedicated to the Notary service.You'll be able to find more detailsabout the latest features and performance improvementsin the documentation linked to this talk in the coming weeks.Access to the tool is available with the latest Xcode build,with information to help you get startedin the tool's man pages.So make the switch today to start distributing softwaremore quickly and seamlessly than ever before.Thank you.♪

♪ Bass music playing ♪♪Olivia Hillman: Hi, I'm Olivia Hillman,and I'm a security engineerworking on Apple's Notary service.

I'm going to talk to youabout some exciting work we've been doingto make notarizing Mac apps faster and simpler.

I'll start with a brief overview of what the Notary service is.

Then I'll dive into our new tooland I'll share how you can get started using it.

So, let's begin!Notarization is for Mac developersthat distribute their software outside of the App Store,and this talk specifically is for those of youthat use the existing command-line tool, altoolto interact with Notary.

If you're notarizing with Xcode only,your workflow isn't changing.

Mac developers submit their software to be notarizedbefore it's distributed, so it can run on a user's Mac.

This notarization process gives users confidencethat software running on their machineshas been checked by Apple for malicious components.

Notarization has been helping to protect customerssince macOS 10.14.

And now, we've made it faster and simpler to use.

For more background about Notary,check out our in-depth 2019 talk "All about Notarization".

Let's take a look at the Notary workflow.

Developers build their softwareand send it to us for notarization.

The Notary service runs automated analysisthat scans the software for malicious contentand checks for code signing issues.

If there are no issues, Notary publishes a ticketto be retrieved by users’ Macs when they launch the software.

And then we return the result to your developer team.

We're committed to completing this process within 15 minutesfor 98 percent of Notary submissions,and most complete in under five.

You can then provide your app for users to download,and macOS checks the softwarebefore it can run on a user's machine.

We care about protecting customers from malwareand making it easier for developers to submit to Notaryand even faster for users to get access to new software.

And with that mission in mind,I'm thrilled to share with you the new way to notarize.

Introducing notarytool.

notarytool provides a one-line commandfor submitting your software and waiting for your result.

We've introduced targeted enhancementsfocused specifically on the needs of Mac developersthat are notarizing software independentlywithout the need for altool's App Store support.

These improvements make notarization faster and easier,all while we continue to protect customers from malware.

Developers depend on the Notary service,so we want it to be as reliable as possibleand available whenever developers need it.

In addition to the changes to the client software,we've also streamlined the service.

In fact, we've built a new dedicated service backendthat's focused on reliability just for Notary.

The new service is designed to bring you improvementsin end-to-end processing speed,and we're excited for you to try it out.

We know you may be waiting as your submission uploads,so we've worked hard to make upload speedup to four times faster for most developers.

To take advantage of these incredible performanceand reliability gains,be sure to transition from altool to notarytool.

notarytool is easy to use and carefully designedwith your notarization workflow in mind.

We've heard your feedback and we wanted to improvethe developer interaction with a simpler clientand a single line to get things done.

So let's say I'm a developerand I've just finished building the latest bug fix to my app.

I want to get this published as soon as possible.

The quickest way for me to accomplish thiswith altool on the command lineis with a polling loop, like this.

I first submit my application, and when that's done,I start to continuously poll for statusuntil processing is complete.

Now, with notarytool,we've added a wait flag to the clientthat allows you to submitand wait for your notarization resultall in one command.

As soon as your job completes,the program will display the results of your submission.

Once you receive your submission result,you're only one command away from viewing your Notary logusing the new client.

You'll be able to view details about your resultdirectly from notarytool,including any reasons why your applicationmay not be notarized.

We've also added a brand-new featurethat's accessible to you when you submit to Notary:webhook notifications.

This feature allows you to specify a URLfor a server callbackas soon as we finish processing your software.

By specifying a webhook URL when you submit,you can seamlessly add notarizationinto your continuous integration workflowsby automatically retrieving your result and your Notary logwhen you receive a notification.

We can't wait for you to start using this powerful new tool,and we look forward to receiving your feedback about notarytooland this new developer experience.

notarytool is the new clientfor interacting with the Notary serviceand is distributed with Xcode.

altool isn't going away,but is now deprecated for use with Notary.

notarytool makes your workflow faster and simplerwith a client that's dedicated to the Notary service.

You'll be able to find more detailsabout the latest features and performance improvementsin the documentation linked to this talk in the coming weeks.

Access to the tool is available with the latest Xcode build,with information to help you get startedin the tool's man pages.

So make the switch today to start distributing softwaremore quickly and seamlessly than ever before.

Thank you.

♪

4:10 -altool example

4:19 -notarytool example

## Code Samples

```swift
// with altool
xcrun altool --notarize-app -f path/to/submission.zip 
    --primary-bundle-id 
"
$BUNDLE_ID
"

    --apiKey 
"
$KEY_ID
"
 --apiIssuer 
"
$ISSUER
"


while
 
true
; 
do

  INFO_OUT=$(2>&1 xcrun altool --notarization-info 
"
$SUBMISSION_ID
"
 -u 
"
$USER
"
 
      --apiKey 
"
$KEY_ID
"
 --apiIssuer 
"
$ISSUER
"
)
  STATUS=$(
echo
 
"
$INFO_OUT
"
 | grep 
"Status:"
 | sed -Ee 
"s|.*: (.*)$|\1|"
 )
  
if
 [[ 
"
$STATUS
"
 != 
"in progress"
 ]]; 
then
 
    
break

  
fi

  sleep 30

done
```

```swift
// with notarytool
notarytool submit path/to/submission.zip --
wait

    --key 
"
$KEY_PATH
"
 --key-id 
"
$KEY_ID
"
 --issuer 
"
$ISSUER
"
```

