# Wwdc2021 10322

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Tuesday@WWDC21The day's almost over, but there's still so much to explore: Catch up on the best of Day 2 at WWDC and check out a few of the great sessions and activities still to come.ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC21Classify hand poses and actions with Create MLCreate accessible experiences for watchOSCreate custom audio experiences with ShazamKitDiscover built-in sound classification in SoundAnalysisExplore Nearby Interaction with third-party accessoriesGet ready to optimize your App Store product pageMeet StoreKit 2Meet the Screen Time APIOut of this world... on to MarsSimplify sign in for your tvOS appsThe process of inclusive designWhat’s new in SF Symbols

The day's almost over, but there's still so much to explore: Catch up on the best of Day 2 at WWDC and check out a few of the great sessions and activities still to come.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Classify hand poses and actions with Create ML

Create accessible experiences for watchOS

Create custom audio experiences with ShazamKit

Discover built-in sound classification in SoundAnalysis

Explore Nearby Interaction with third-party accessories

Get ready to optimize your App Store product page

Meet StoreKit 2

Meet the Screen Time API

Out of this world... on to Mars

Simplify sign in for your tvOS apps

The process of inclusive design

What’s new in SF Symbols

Search this video…Buckle up! Your day two recap starts now.♪ "Better Days (Instrumental)" by DARKMINDS ♪We learned how to analyze and classify soundswhile sharing a cup of tea with Jon.- The demo app is using my Mac's built-in microphoneto listen to sounds in the environment.- And discovered how to recognize custom audiowith ShazamKit.- What if you could play a video on your Apple TVand have a companion app that displays questionsat exactly the right time?- At lunchtime, aerospace engineer Tiera Fletchertook us to space.- We are voyagers collecting data beyond our solar system.- Then we explored Screen Time API with Nolan...- Homework encourages good habitsby restricting a child's access to certain apps.- ...designed inclusive apps with Cynthia,and learned how to quickly implement in-app subscriptionswith StoreKit 2.We found out how you can use Nearby Interactionwith third-party accessories...- For example, you can create a nearby peer configurationwhen you want to start a session between two iPhonesthat are running your app.- ...and discovered how to build a simplified sign-on processfor tvOS.No. Password. Needed.What a packed day!I think I need to go visit the Health & Fitness pavilionand check out today's Mindful Cooldown.And here's a quick preview of what's coming tomorrow.♪Pretty cool stuff, eh?See you along the way.♪

Buckle up! Your day two recap starts now.

♪ "Better Days (Instrumental)" by DARKMINDS ♪We learned how to analyze and classify soundswhile sharing a cup of tea with Jon.

- The demo app is using my Mac's built-in microphoneto listen to sounds in the environment.

- And discovered how to recognize custom audiowith ShazamKit.

- What if you could play a video on your Apple TVand have a companion app that displays questionsat exactly the right time?- At lunchtime, aerospace engineer Tiera Fletchertook us to space.

- We are voyagers collecting data beyond our solar system.

- Then we explored Screen Time API with Nolan...

- Homework encourages good habitsby restricting a child's access to certain apps.

- ...designed inclusive apps with Cynthia,and learned how to quickly implement in-app subscriptionswith StoreKit 2.

We found out how you can use Nearby Interactionwith third-party accessories...

- For example, you can create a nearby peer configurationwhen you want to start a session between two iPhonesthat are running your app.

- ...and discovered how to build a simplified sign-on processfor tvOS.

No. Password. Needed.

What a packed day!I think I need to go visit the Health & Fitness pavilionand check out today's Mindful Cooldown.

And here's a quick preview of what's coming tomorrow.

♪Pretty cool stuff, eh?See you along the way.

♪

## Code Samples

