# Wwdc2021 10323

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Wednesday@WWDC21Well hello, Wednesday! Time to catch up on Day 3 at WWDC and find out what's coming to a Thursday near you.ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC21Accessibility by design: An Apple Watch for everyoneAccessibility by design: An Apple Watch for everyone (ASL)AR Quick Look, meet Object CaptureBuild interfaces with styleClassify hand poses and actions with Create MLDeliver a great playback experience on tvOSDesign great actions for Shortcuts, Siri, and SuggestionsDiscover rolling clips with ReplayKitDiscover Web Inspector improvementsDiscoverable designMeet the UIKit button systemMove beyond passwordsPrinciples of great widgetsWWDC21 Apple Design AwardsWWDC21 Apple Design Awards (ASL)

Well hello, Wednesday! Time to catch up on Day 3 at WWDC and find out what's coming to a Thursday near you.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Accessibility by design: An Apple Watch for everyone

Accessibility by design: An Apple Watch for everyone (ASL)

AR Quick Look, meet Object Capture

Build interfaces with style

Classify hand poses and actions with Create ML

Deliver a great playback experience on tvOS

Design great actions for Shortcuts, Siri, and Suggestions

Discover rolling clips with ReplayKit

Discover Web Inspector improvements

Discoverable design

Meet the UIKit button system

Move beyond passwords

Principles of great widgets

WWDC21 Apple Design Awards

WWDC21 Apple Design Awards (ASL)

Search this video…Ready for your day three recap?Here we go.♪ "Better Days (Instrumental)" by DARKMINDS ♪We discovered how to bring real-world objectsinto augmented reality.Ari showed us how to design incredible actionsand shortcuts for our apps.- You open your app upto a world of Shortcuts possibilities.- While Yusef helped us add some styleto our user interfaces.- This makes the label wrap aroundto as many lines as needed.- Check out the new buttons system.Pop-ups, accessible design, and so much more!And hey, speaking of,did you catch Apple engineers and designers as they sharedhow we built Apple Watch with accessibility in mind?- I mean, we're talking about real sci-fi kind of thingsright now.- Amazing!Meanwhile, we explored how to turn people into superheroeswith Vision.- This is cool.- Can't wait to try that.We discovered how to move beyond passwordswith iCloud Keychain and Passkeys.- This is the first step of a multiyear effortin replacing passwords.- Phew. I'm gonna feel so secure.And we learned how you can create interactive,memorable experiences to onboard people into your app.And there's so much more amazing stuff on the way.♪Wow, that was a trip!♪

Ready for your day three recap?Here we go.

♪ "Better Days (Instrumental)" by DARKMINDS ♪We discovered how to bring real-world objectsinto augmented reality.

Ari showed us how to design incredible actionsand shortcuts for our apps.

- You open your app upto a world of Shortcuts possibilities.

- While Yusef helped us add some styleto our user interfaces.

- This makes the label wrap aroundto as many lines as needed.

- Check out the new buttons system.

Pop-ups, accessible design, and so much more!And hey, speaking of,did you catch Apple engineers and designers as they sharedhow we built Apple Watch with accessibility in mind?- I mean, we're talking about real sci-fi kind of thingsright now.

- Amazing!Meanwhile, we explored how to turn people into superheroeswith Vision.

- This is cool.

- Can't wait to try that.

We discovered how to move beyond passwordswith iCloud Keychain and Passkeys.

- This is the first step of a multiyear effortin replacing passwords.

- Phew. I'm gonna feel so secure.

And we learned how you can create interactive,memorable experiences to onboard people into your app.

And there's so much more amazing stuff on the way.

♪Wow, that was a trip!♪

## Code Samples

