# Wwdc2021 10291

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Explore the catalog with the Apple Music APIDiscover how you can use the Apple Music API to fetch music catalog metadata for your app. Explore the latest updates to the API as well as some advanced techniques for shaping your requests and highlighting the right metadata for a project.

To get the most out of this session, we recommend some familiarity with the Apple Music API.ResourcesMusicKitHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC22Meet Apple Music API and MusicKitWWDC21Meet MusicKit for Swift

Discover how you can use the Apple Music API to fetch music catalog metadata for your app. Explore the latest updates to the API as well as some advanced techniques for shaping your requests and highlighting the right metadata for a project.

To get the most out of this session, we recommend some familiarity with the Apple Music API.

MusicKit

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Meet Apple Music API and MusicKit

Meet MusicKit for Swift

Search this video…♪ Bass music playing ♪♪Graham Seyffert: Hello and welcome to WWDC 2021.My name is Graham Seyffert, and I’m a MusicKit engineer.Over the past few years,we’ve enhanced the ability of developersto fetch new, enriched data from the Apple Music catalog.Today we’re excited to introducesome of those improvements to you.In this presentation, we’ll be going over enhancementsto the search functionality in the API,as well as new ways to request databy relating resources, extending attributes,and requesting relationship viewsfor resources in your responses.Finally, we’ll go over some new enhancements to the Charts API.Before going over some of the search enhancements,I’d like to quickly recap the current /search/hints endpoint.You might already use this endpoint todayto fetch a list of suggested search terms.As an example, here’s some results you might get backfor the search term “taylor”.Today, we’re introducing the /search/suggestions endpointwhich replaces the /search/hints endpoint.This endpoint provides access to the same termsas the /search/hints endpoint,and you can continue to fetch these by specifying kinds=termson your request.However, you can see that the response from this endpointis a bit different.suggested results now indicate their kind,which will match one of the kinds specified on the request.It also differentiates the term that should be usedfor the search queryfrom the term that should be displayed to the user.More importantly, this endpoint now also allows accessto the top suggested search results --ideal for powering typeahead results.These may be requested by specifying kinds=topResultson the request,as well as some resource typesthat you’re interested in fetching results for.Resources for topResults kindscan be found under the content key.It’s worth noting that the resultsyou’ll get from this endpoint might be noticeably differentfrom the results you’d get from a regular search,as this response prioritizes speed over breadth.As such, this is not intended to be a replacementfor the regular /search endpoint,but rather a complement to it.Before going into how to modify resources,I’d like to reintroduce what a resource isfor those that may not be familiar.All resources have what we call a “resource identifier,”which is the minimal amount of information you’d needin order to look a resource up in the API.Resource identifiers will include a resource’s ID,its type, and its href.The complete representation of a resourcewill also include that resource’s attributes,such as its name, and potentially relationshipsif they’ve been requested using the include parameter.Relationships are collections of related resources,such as a song’s genres or a playlist’s tracks.With that,I’d like to now introduce the concept of relating resources.Relationships requested with relateare different from relationships requested with includein that they only returnthe aforementioned Resource Identifiersfor the resources in that relationship.This means that relating a relationshipresults in a faster responseif all you need access to is a resource's reference.You can relate a relationship by using the relate query parameterand classifying it with the resource type you’re targeting,followed by a list of relationship namesyou’re interested in getting back.For example, on the /search /suggestions endpoint,you may decide that when a user selects a song resultthat you want to pop out to the album page for that song.In this case, all you need is the href for that song’s albumin order to navigate there,so we can specify relate=albumsin order to get that data.After doing that, we can see that song resultsin our response now include the resource identifiersfor their respective albums.So relate is great to use when we want to quickly referenceadditional related content,but what if we want to learn more about the resourceswe’re already getting back in our responses?As mentioned previously,every resource today has a default set of attributes --things like its name, its artwork, et cetera.But resources may also have extended attributes.Extended attributes are either more expensive to calculateor are less frequently needed,such that including them by defaultmight either slow down responses noticeablyor bloat the object model.Similar to what we just saw with the relate query param,you can request extended attributes on resourcesby using the extend query param,classifying it with a resource type,and following it with a list of attribute namesthat you’re interested in.Building on our /suggestions request,we might decide that, for song results,we also want to allow users the abilityto link out to that artist’s page on Apple Music.In order to do this,you could simply append extend=artistUrlto your request.Indeed, after doing this,we can see the songs resources in our responsesnow include the artistUrl attribute.Now I’d like to introduce the concept of relationship views.Compared to relationships,views are more loosely coupled to their resource.They don’t necessarily represent some ground truthabout a resource like relationships do.This makes views ideally suitedfor driving product page experiences,such as an album page.Compare this to relationships which may be useful to use on,for instance, search result pages.Additionally, views may have attributes -- like a title --as well as data.Views are also only requestable on direct resource fetches.This means that there are two different waysyou can fetch them.You can either use the views query parameterand specify a list,or a single one via /view/{viewName}right after the resource’s ID in the request path.In this response, we have an exampleof what it might look like to include the Top Songs viewon an artist resource.Other examples include Top Music Videosor an artist’s singles.The full list of supported views for a given resource typecan of course be foundin the official Apple Music API documentation.Finally, let’s take a look at the updates to the Charts API.Today, Apple Music supports chart playlists for the world,storefronts, and more recently, specific cities.Users can add these chart playlists to their libraries,which will update automatically.You can now fetch these directly from the /charts endpointby specifying types=playlistsand using the "with" query parameterto indicate which sets you’d like --either dailyGlobalTopCharts or cityCharts, or both.And here we have an example of how a chart’s responsewith those query parameters might look.So in summary, today we went over enhancementsto the search and charts endpoints,and looked at new ways to fetch data for resourcesin our responses.If you’d like to learn more about the Apple Music API,I’d highly suggest this year’s sessionon how to Cross reference content on the Apple Music API,or 2017’s Introducing MusicKit presentation,which goes over some of the API’s core conceptsin even greater detail.Thanks so much for watching,and we hope you enjoy this year’s WWDC.♪

♪ Bass music playing ♪♪Graham Seyffert: Hello and welcome to WWDC 2021.

My name is Graham Seyffert, and I’m a MusicKit engineer.

Over the past few years,we’ve enhanced the ability of developersto fetch new, enriched data from the Apple Music catalog.

Today we’re excited to introducesome of those improvements to you.

In this presentation, we’ll be going over enhancementsto the search functionality in the API,as well as new ways to request databy relating resources, extending attributes,and requesting relationship viewsfor resources in your responses.

Finally, we’ll go over some new enhancements to the Charts API.

Before going over some of the search enhancements,I’d like to quickly recap the current /search/hints endpoint.

You might already use this endpoint todayto fetch a list of suggested search terms.

As an example, here’s some results you might get backfor the search term “taylor”.

Today, we’re introducing the /search/suggestions endpointwhich replaces the /search/hints endpoint.

This endpoint provides access to the same termsas the /search/hints endpoint,and you can continue to fetch these by specifying kinds=termson your request.

However, you can see that the response from this endpointis a bit different.

suggested results now indicate their kind,which will match one of the kinds specified on the request.

It also differentiates the term that should be usedfor the search queryfrom the term that should be displayed to the user.

More importantly, this endpoint now also allows accessto the top suggested search results --ideal for powering typeahead results.

These may be requested by specifying kinds=topResultson the request,as well as some resource typesthat you’re interested in fetching results for.

Resources for topResults kindscan be found under the content key.

It’s worth noting that the resultsyou’ll get from this endpoint might be noticeably differentfrom the results you’d get from a regular search,as this response prioritizes speed over breadth.

As such, this is not intended to be a replacementfor the regular /search endpoint,but rather a complement to it.

Before going into how to modify resources,I’d like to reintroduce what a resource isfor those that may not be familiar.

All resources have what we call a “resource identifier,”which is the minimal amount of information you’d needin order to look a resource up in the API.

Resource identifiers will include a resource’s ID,its type, and its href.

The complete representation of a resourcewill also include that resource’s attributes,such as its name, and potentially relationshipsif they’ve been requested using the include parameter.

Relationships are collections of related resources,such as a song’s genres or a playlist’s tracks.

With that,I’d like to now introduce the concept of relating resources.

Relationships requested with relateare different from relationships requested with includein that they only returnthe aforementioned Resource Identifiersfor the resources in that relationship.

This means that relating a relationshipresults in a faster responseif all you need access to is a resource's reference.

You can relate a relationship by using the relate query parameterand classifying it with the resource type you’re targeting,followed by a list of relationship namesyou’re interested in getting back.

For example, on the /search /suggestions endpoint,you may decide that when a user selects a song resultthat you want to pop out to the album page for that song.

In this case, all you need is the href for that song’s albumin order to navigate there,so we can specify relate=albumsin order to get that data.

After doing that, we can see that song resultsin our response now include the resource identifiersfor their respective albums.

So relate is great to use when we want to quickly referenceadditional related content,but what if we want to learn more about the resourceswe’re already getting back in our responses?As mentioned previously,every resource today has a default set of attributes --things like its name, its artwork, et cetera.

But resources may also have extended attributes.

Extended attributes are either more expensive to calculateor are less frequently needed,such that including them by defaultmight either slow down responses noticeablyor bloat the object model.

Similar to what we just saw with the relate query param,you can request extended attributes on resourcesby using the extend query param,classifying it with a resource type,and following it with a list of attribute namesthat you’re interested in.

Building on our /suggestions request,we might decide that, for song results,we also want to allow users the abilityto link out to that artist’s page on Apple Music.

In order to do this,you could simply append extend=artistUrlto your request.

Indeed, after doing this,we can see the songs resources in our responsesnow include the artistUrl attribute.

Now I’d like to introduce the concept of relationship views.

Compared to relationships,views are more loosely coupled to their resource.

They don’t necessarily represent some ground truthabout a resource like relationships do.

This makes views ideally suitedfor driving product page experiences,such as an album page.

Compare this to relationships which may be useful to use on,for instance, search result pages.

Additionally, views may have attributes -- like a title --as well as data.

Views are also only requestable on direct resource fetches.

This means that there are two different waysyou can fetch them.

You can either use the views query parameterand specify a list,or a single one via /view/{viewName}right after the resource’s ID in the request path.

In this response, we have an exampleof what it might look like to include the Top Songs viewon an artist resource.

Other examples include Top Music Videosor an artist’s singles.

The full list of supported views for a given resource typecan of course be foundin the official Apple Music API documentation.

Finally, let’s take a look at the updates to the Charts API.

Today, Apple Music supports chart playlists for the world,storefronts, and more recently, specific cities.

Users can add these chart playlists to their libraries,which will update automatically.

You can now fetch these directly from the /charts endpointby specifying types=playlistsand using the "with" query parameterto indicate which sets you’d like --either dailyGlobalTopCharts or cityCharts, or both.

And here we have an example of how a chart’s responsewith those query parameters might look.

So in summary, today we went over enhancementsto the search and charts endpoints,and looked at new ways to fetch data for resourcesin our responses.

If you’d like to learn more about the Apple Music API,I’d highly suggest this year’s sessionon how to Cross reference content on the Apple Music API,or 2017’s Introducing MusicKit presentation,which goes over some of the API’s core conceptsin even greater detail.

Thanks so much for watching,and we hope you enjoy this year’s WWDC.

♪

1:25 -Search Suggestions Terms Request

2:09 -Search Suggestions Top Results Request

3:47 -Search Suggestions Relate Albums Request

5:03 -Search Suggestions Extend artistUrl Request

6:16 -Artist Top Songs View Request

6:59 -Top Charts Request

## Code Samples

```swift
/v1/catalog/us/search/suggestions?term=taylor&kinds=terms
```

```swift
/v1/catalog/us/search/suggestions?term=taylor&kinds=topResults&types=artists,songs
```

```swift
/v1/catalog/us/search/suggestions?term=taylor&kinds=topResults&types=artists,albums,songs&relate[songs]=albums
```

```swift
/v1/catalog/us/search/suggestions?term=taylor&kinds=topResults&types=artists,albums,songs&relate[songs]=albums&extend[songs]=artistUrl
```

```swift
/v1/catalog/us/artists/
159260351
?views=top-songs
```

```swift
/v1/catalog/us/charts?types=playlists&with=dailyGlobalTopCharts,cityCharts
```

