# Wwdc2024 111976

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

18 things from WWDC24Here's your guide to the big announcements from this year's Worldwide Developers Conference.ResourcesHD VideoSD Video

Here's your guide to the big announcements from this year's Worldwide Developers Conference.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Search this video…Voiceover: Siri,play that one song Diego sent me.♪ "So Happy" (feat. Laura Mvula & Francis and the Lights)by Kassa Overall ♪OK... Oh! How'd it do that?With Apple Intelligence.It's AI that gets you, on your Apple products --iPhone, iPad, Mac -- with built-in privacy.And you can make your own emoji.Yeah.Make.Your.Own.Emoji.Make your new profile pic with Image Playground.Pull up a photo by describing it.Or clean up an otherwise very cute pic.You can make a movie!Your life plus a description plus your camera rollequals sweet memories.Wait.Siri?  When's Mom's flight landing?Oh. Where are we eating after?Ah. How do I share a password?What if I forget all this stuff?Siri: Just ask. Voiceover: Oh...Apple Intelligence can TL;DR your long messagesand highlights the important ones.It can just find stuff deep in your phonelike your driver's license numberor that front-row concert ticket.Coming to iPad...Calculator.And you can just handwrite a math problem.Math Note solves it for you.Or write something not even you can read,and iPad will clean it right up.Say what you really mean in Messages,with more expression, more personality, more you,now or later,from just about anywhere,even without a phone signal......because of satellites.Ugh! I forgot my phone.Oh! I can just pull it up on Mac and use it!Digital voice: La manzana.Voiceover: Ooh! I'm going to get another coffee.Hey, bud...Focus, focus.Customize your iPhone's Home Screenand these buttons.Hide or lock the apps you want to, um,keep to yourself.Siri: Call from Dump Him.Answer it?Voiceover: Mm-mm.Just shake or nod to reply to Siri with AirPods.See how much effort you've put in with Apple Watch.Whew! Time to chill.Take up some space.Whoa, that's big!Revisit these cuties in Spatial.And immerse yourself with these guys on Vision Pro.OK, there's more than 18 things.Way more. But, whatever! You deserve it.See you this fall.

Voiceover: Siri,play that one song Diego sent me.

♪ "So Happy" (feat. Laura Mvula & Francis and the Lights)by Kassa Overall ♪OK... Oh! How'd it do that?With Apple Intelligence.

It's AI that gets you, on your Apple products --iPhone, iPad, Mac -- with built-in privacy.

And you can make your own emoji.

Yeah.

Make.

Your.

Own.

Emoji.Make your new profile pic with Image Playground.

Pull up a photo by describing it.

Or clean up an otherwise very cute pic.

You can make a movie!Your life plus a description plus your camera rollequals sweet memories.

Wait.

Siri?  When's Mom's flight landing?Oh. Where are we eating after?Ah. How do I share a password?What if I forget all this stuff?Siri: Just ask. Voiceover: Oh...

Apple Intelligence can TL;DR your long messagesand highlights the important ones.

It can just find stuff deep in your phonelike your driver's license numberor that front-row concert ticket.

Coming to iPad...

Calculator.

And you can just handwrite a math problem.

Math Note solves it for you.

Or write something not even you can read,and iPad will clean it right up.

Say what you really mean in Messages,with more expression, more personality, more you,now or later,from just about anywhere,even without a phone signal......because of satellites.Ugh! I forgot my phone.

Oh! I can just pull it up on Mac and use it!Digital voice: La manzana.

Voiceover: Ooh! I'm going to get another coffee.

Hey, bud...

Focus, focus.

Customize your iPhone's Home Screenand these buttons.Hide or lock the apps you want to, um,keep to yourself.

Siri: Call from Dump Him.

Answer it?Voiceover: Mm-mm.

Just shake or nod to reply to Siri with AirPods.

See how much effort you've put in with Apple Watch.

Whew! Time to chill.

Take up some space.

Whoa, that's big!Revisit these cuties in Spatial.

And immerse yourself with these guys on Vision Pro.

OK, there's more than 18 things.

Way more. But, whatever! You deserve it.

See you this fall.

## Code Samples

