# Wwdc2023 10146

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Meet Core Location for spatial computingDiscover how Core Location helps your app find its place in the world — literally. We'll share how you can build a spatial computing app that uses a person's location while respecting their privacy. You'll also learn how your app can request location access and how Core Location adapts requests from compatible iPad and iPhone apps.ResourcesAdopting live updates in Core LocationCore LocationMonitoring location changes with Core LocationHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC23Discover streamlined location updatesMeet Core Location MonitorRun your iPad and iPhone apps in the Shared SpaceWWDC19What's New in Core Location

Discover how Core Location helps your app find its place in the world — literally. We'll share how you can build a spatial computing app that uses a person's location while respecting their privacy. You'll also learn how your app can request location access and how Core Location adapts requests from compatible iPad and iPhone apps.

Adopting live updates in Core Location

Core Location

Monitoring location changes with Core Location

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Discover streamlined location updates

Meet Core Location Monitor

Run your iPad and iPhone apps in the Shared Space

What's New in Core Location

Search this video…♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hop ♪♪Hello there!I'm Ilya Veygman, an engineer with Core Location.I'm here today to talk to youabout Core Location for spatial computing.Whether you're brand-new to Apple's ecosystemor a longtime App Store developer,you probably have lots of questionsabout the kinds of things this system can do.xrOS is great at showing you the fruits of your imagination,while Core Location is thereto help you have an anchor in the real world.Today, I'm here to tell you all about how to do just thatwith Core Location.For those of you who are brand-newto the Apple developer ecosystem, welcome!I'd like to start off with a simple exampleto show you just how straightforward it really isto add location to your app.For experienced developers,it never hurts to review one's basics.So let's start by looking at some sample codefor this demo applicationassociated with my colleague's session,"Discover streamlined location updates."In this actor, we request live updatesfrom CLLocationUpdate,and we'll get them asynchronously down hereas they become available.For more details on the location updates API,please refer to the session associated with this demo.Apps must request the user's permissionbefore accessing sensitive information such as location,so here, we invoke this API to do so.In this simple example, we do it when the view inits.We also have to ensure that we set this stringin the app's info under Build Settings.Again, apps must ask the user's permissionbefore they can get sensitive information such as location,and this string is there to explain to the user why.It will later be displayed in a promptshown to the user requesting this access.So let's see how this looks when we run it in the simulator.Again, in this application, we ask for location accessstraightaway because it's a simple example.This will not always be the case with your apps.You can see that we get a prompt asking the userif they will grant access to their private information.Now before moving on, let's chat a little bit moreabout how Core Location treats user privacy on this system.Even if you are new to our developer ecosystem,you might already be aware that Apple is heavily focusedon privacy in its user experience.Location access is not an exception to this maxim.Before you can get updates about geolocation,you must first ask the user for permissionto access their location information.You will not get location updates without user consent.You can ask for consent on this system by creatinga location manager and invoking requestWhenInUseAuthorization,along with setting the usage description stringin your app's Info.plist.This, again, tells the userwhy your app needs to know their location.Finally, you should only ask for this access in a contextwhen your application actually needs it.Not only is this better from a privacy perspective,it also ensures the user is more likely to allow access at all.Recall that we did this in our sample codesince it was a very simple exampleand starts asking for location updates immediately.So what does this prompt look like and what does it show?Users will see a prompt from your applicationsimilar to the one here.This may look familiar to those of you watchingwho already have experience with iOS development.A user can grant location access for just this session,while using the app, or deny it entirely.Users may also choose to grant your applicationknowledge of either their precise or approximate locationusing the highlighted button, just like on iOS.For more information on how exactlythis precise versus approximate location works,please refer to "What's new in location"from WWDC20,hosted by a younger version of myself.So back to the demo.After we grant this application access to precise locationand authorize it while in use,we can now start getting location updatesand see our app getting position updates.So what exactly did I mean by "precise location"?That is, how accurately can the headset know a user's location?For a unit by itself, you should expect accuracysimilar to that of a Mac, so that's about 100 meters.This will be sufficient for applications like those usedfor finding nearby restaurants, parks, and other attractions.However, if your iPhone is nearby,this device can leverage existing connectionsbetween these two devices to improve the location accuracyyou would get from the headsetto be on the same level as that of an iPhone.Your device works even better when togetherwith our other Apple hardware.This opens up a whole new range of applicationswhich can run on a spatial computing system like this one,such as precise weather updates, geotagging, and more.Now for both newcomers and experienced developers,you've also heard me say that an app is eligibleto get location updates while a user is using it.What this means is fairly straightforwardon iPhone or watch, but what does it mean for us?The user experience is, after all,very different from an iPhone or a watch.So, let's talk about that.Let us call back to "What's New In Core Location"from 2019 where we discussed how and when foreground appsare considered to be in use on iOS.For a platform like iPhone, this is fairly obvious.There can only really be one app foregrounded at any given time.There is also a short grace periodafter the app is backgroundedwhile it can still get location updates.So what about here?Your application on this platformcan be fully immersive, or you could have appsrunning in something like a window."How does Core Location treat this?"you're probably wondering.For a fully immersive experience,this is straightforward.As long as the user is running your application,we consider it to be in use and eligibleto get location updates, assuming that the userhas granted consent for your app to get their location.On this system,Core Location provides location information to your app,so long as the user has recently looked at the app.To wit, on this platform, we consider appsrunning in a window to be eligible to get location updatesif the user has consented to giving their location to them,and if the user has recently looked at the app.Let's examine this more concretely.Imagine that both of these apps have been authorizedto access the user's location while in use.So long as the user is not interacting withor looking at either app,neither one will be able to get location updates.If the user starts looking at -- that is, interacting with --the app on the left, that app can now get location updates,while the right one still cannot,even if it happens to be in the user's peripheral vision.And this will remain true until the user looks somewhere else,such as at the app on the right,or moves the two apps togethersuch that they can look at both of the apps at the same time.Just like in iOS, there is also a grace periodbefore Core Location considers the app to no longer be in use.This means that if the user were to look at an app on the left,then at the app on the right before looking somewhere else,there will be a short period of time --a few seconds --when both apps are still eligible to get locationbefore Core Location considers these apps to be out of use.We feel that such a model of location accessprovides a good experience on this platformwhile being respectful of user privacy,since a user would not have their location trackedwithout their permission or knowledge,particularly since this device is intendedto be used interactively, rather than as somethingwhich runs stashed somewhere like in your backpack.As such, apps will not be able to get location updateswhile they're not running.Similarly, updates from our monitoring APIswould not be delivered.So this brings me to something else which many developerswho already have location-using apps for Apple platformsare probably wondering about:How will my app behave when running in compatibility mode?So what happens if I just run my iPhone or iPad appwith no code changes for a device running xrOS?Let's talk about that a bit.As already discussed, the "in-useness" of "while in use"derives from where the user has looked recently.And apps are eligible to get locationonly when the user is looking at them.So what about apps which request Always authorization?Apps which prompt for Always will have their requestredirected to request authorization while in use.You will similarly see that Always is not an optionfor your application under Settings.Location on this system works best for single-shotor continuous updates while your app is being used.If your compatible iPhone or iPad appuses region monitoring or our new CLMonitor,it will not be delivered events.Consider if your iOS app is designed in such a waythat assumes a particular API is always supported,and might behave in unexpected ways if, for example,monitoring APIs never deliver events.Similarly, consider whether your app relieson getting location updates in the backgroundwhile it's not running.To learn more about our API in general,especially what's new this year,I would recommend that you watch these other two sessionsfrom my colleagues,as well as any of our other sessions from previous years,especially if you're a newcomer to our ecosystem."Discover streamlined location updates"discusses some new developments in our API,particularly around how we recommendgetting location updates and ways in which we havemade our API more compatible with Swift concurrency."Meet Core Location Monitor" further discussesnew developments in monitoring APIs,and how we've reimagined the ways an app can get notifiedabout events such as geographic entries and exits.If location is something you care about for your app,I am certain that you'll find these to be time well spent.xrOS provides a really cool experiencethat I'm sure many of you have been anticipatingfor quite some time.We have been too, and we worked hard to ensurethat you can provide the best possible user experienceboth for apps which were designedspecifically for this device,and for those compatible iPhone or iPad apps.We also want to make sure that user privacy is respectedin the best ways possible, and that a transitionto this platform is as seamless as possiblefor those of you who have existing apps in our store.Now that said, do consider how your compatible appsmight behave in a scenario when they don't receive notificationsabout events like region changes or visits.I definitely encourage you to watchany of the other sessions, both specific to Core Locationand to spatial computing in general,which might pique your interests.Thank you and enjoy the rest of WWDC.♪

♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hop ♪♪Hello there!I'm Ilya Veygman, an engineer with Core Location.

I'm here today to talk to youabout Core Location for spatial computing.

Whether you're brand-new to Apple's ecosystemor a longtime App Store developer,you probably have lots of questionsabout the kinds of things this system can do.

xrOS is great at showing you the fruits of your imagination,while Core Location is thereto help you have an anchor in the real world.

Today, I'm here to tell you all about how to do just thatwith Core Location.

For those of you who are brand-newto the Apple developer ecosystem, welcome!I'd like to start off with a simple exampleto show you just how straightforward it really isto add location to your app.

For experienced developers,it never hurts to review one's basics.

So let's start by looking at some sample codefor this demo applicationassociated with my colleague's session,"Discover streamlined location updates."In this actor, we request live updatesfrom CLLocationUpdate,and we'll get them asynchronously down hereas they become available.

For more details on the location updates API,please refer to the session associated with this demo.

Apps must request the user's permissionbefore accessing sensitive information such as location,so here, we invoke this API to do so.

In this simple example, we do it when the view inits.

We also have to ensure that we set this stringin the app's info under Build Settings.

Again, apps must ask the user's permissionbefore they can get sensitive information such as location,and this string is there to explain to the user why.

It will later be displayed in a promptshown to the user requesting this access.

So let's see how this looks when we run it in the simulator.

Again, in this application, we ask for location accessstraightaway because it's a simple example.

This will not always be the case with your apps.

You can see that we get a prompt asking the userif they will grant access to their private information.

Now before moving on, let's chat a little bit moreabout how Core Location treats user privacy on this system.

Even if you are new to our developer ecosystem,you might already be aware that Apple is heavily focusedon privacy in its user experience.

Location access is not an exception to this maxim.

Before you can get updates about geolocation,you must first ask the user for permissionto access their location information.

You will not get location updates without user consent.

You can ask for consent on this system by creatinga location manager and invoking requestWhenInUseAuthorization,along with setting the usage description stringin your app's Info.plist.

This, again, tells the userwhy your app needs to know their location.

Finally, you should only ask for this access in a contextwhen your application actually needs it.

Not only is this better from a privacy perspective,it also ensures the user is more likely to allow access at all.

Recall that we did this in our sample codesince it was a very simple exampleand starts asking for location updates immediately.

So what does this prompt look like and what does it show?Users will see a prompt from your applicationsimilar to the one here.

This may look familiar to those of you watchingwho already have experience with iOS development.

A user can grant location access for just this session,while using the app, or deny it entirely.

Users may also choose to grant your applicationknowledge of either their precise or approximate locationusing the highlighted button, just like on iOS.

For more information on how exactlythis precise versus approximate location works,please refer to "What's new in location"from WWDC20,hosted by a younger version of myself.

So back to the demo.

After we grant this application access to precise locationand authorize it while in use,we can now start getting location updatesand see our app getting position updates.

So what exactly did I mean by "precise location"?That is, how accurately can the headset know a user's location?For a unit by itself, you should expect accuracysimilar to that of a Mac, so that's about 100 meters.

This will be sufficient for applications like those usedfor finding nearby restaurants, parks, and other attractions.

However, if your iPhone is nearby,this device can leverage existing connectionsbetween these two devices to improve the location accuracyyou would get from the headsetto be on the same level as that of an iPhone.

Your device works even better when togetherwith our other Apple hardware.

This opens up a whole new range of applicationswhich can run on a spatial computing system like this one,such as precise weather updates, geotagging, and more.

Now for both newcomers and experienced developers,you've also heard me say that an app is eligibleto get location updates while a user is using it.

What this means is fairly straightforwardon iPhone or watch, but what does it mean for us?The user experience is, after all,very different from an iPhone or a watch.

So, let's talk about that.

Let us call back to "What's New In Core Location"from 2019 where we discussed how and when foreground appsare considered to be in use on iOS.

For a platform like iPhone, this is fairly obvious.

There can only really be one app foregrounded at any given time.

There is also a short grace periodafter the app is backgroundedwhile it can still get location updates.

So what about here?Your application on this platformcan be fully immersive, or you could have appsrunning in something like a window.

"How does Core Location treat this?"you're probably wondering.

For a fully immersive experience,this is straightforward.

As long as the user is running your application,we consider it to be in use and eligibleto get location updates, assuming that the userhas granted consent for your app to get their location.

On this system,Core Location provides location information to your app,so long as the user has recently looked at the app.

To wit, on this platform, we consider appsrunning in a window to be eligible to get location updatesif the user has consented to giving their location to them,and if the user has recently looked at the app.

Let's examine this more concretely.

Imagine that both of these apps have been authorizedto access the user's location while in use.

So long as the user is not interacting withor looking at either app,neither one will be able to get location updates.

If the user starts looking at -- that is, interacting with --the app on the left, that app can now get location updates,while the right one still cannot,even if it happens to be in the user's peripheral vision.

And this will remain true until the user looks somewhere else,such as at the app on the right,or moves the two apps togethersuch that they can look at both of the apps at the same time.

Just like in iOS, there is also a grace periodbefore Core Location considers the app to no longer be in use.

This means that if the user were to look at an app on the left,then at the app on the right before looking somewhere else,there will be a short period of time --a few seconds --when both apps are still eligible to get locationbefore Core Location considers these apps to be out of use.

We feel that such a model of location accessprovides a good experience on this platformwhile being respectful of user privacy,since a user would not have their location trackedwithout their permission or knowledge,particularly since this device is intendedto be used interactively, rather than as somethingwhich runs stashed somewhere like in your backpack.

As such, apps will not be able to get location updateswhile they're not running.

Similarly, updates from our monitoring APIswould not be delivered.

So this brings me to something else which many developerswho already have location-using apps for Apple platformsare probably wondering about:How will my app behave when running in compatibility mode?So what happens if I just run my iPhone or iPad appwith no code changes for a device running xrOS?Let's talk about that a bit.

As already discussed, the "in-useness" of "while in use"derives from where the user has looked recently.

And apps are eligible to get locationonly when the user is looking at them.

So what about apps which request Always authorization?Apps which prompt for Always will have their requestredirected to request authorization while in use.

You will similarly see that Always is not an optionfor your application under Settings.

Location on this system works best for single-shotor continuous updates while your app is being used.

If your compatible iPhone or iPad appuses region monitoring or our new CLMonitor,it will not be delivered events.

Consider if your iOS app is designed in such a waythat assumes a particular API is always supported,and might behave in unexpected ways if, for example,monitoring APIs never deliver events.

Similarly, consider whether your app relieson getting location updates in the backgroundwhile it's not running.

To learn more about our API in general,especially what's new this year,I would recommend that you watch these other two sessionsfrom my colleagues,as well as any of our other sessions from previous years,especially if you're a newcomer to our ecosystem.

"Discover streamlined location updates"discusses some new developments in our API,particularly around how we recommendgetting location updates and ways in which we havemade our API more compatible with Swift concurrency.

"Meet Core Location Monitor" further discussesnew developments in monitoring APIs,and how we've reimagined the ways an app can get notifiedabout events such as geographic entries and exits.

If location is something you care about for your app,I am certain that you'll find these to be time well spent.

xrOS provides a really cool experiencethat I'm sure many of you have been anticipatingfor quite some time.

We have been too, and we worked hard to ensurethat you can provide the best possible user experienceboth for apps which were designedspecifically for this device,and for those compatible iPhone or iPad apps.

We also want to make sure that user privacy is respectedin the best ways possible, and that a transitionto this platform is as seamless as possiblefor those of you who have existing apps in our store.

Now that said, do consider how your compatible appsmight behave in a scenario when they don't receive notificationsabout events like region changes or visits.

I definitely encourage you to watchany of the other sessions, both specific to Core Locationand to spatial computing in general,which might pique your interests.

Thank you and enjoy the rest of WWDC.

♪

## Code Samples

