# Wwdc2023 111486

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

17 big & little things at WWDC23Here's your guide to some of the big (and little) things announced on the first day of WWDC.ResourcesHD VideoSD Video

Here's your guide to some of the big (and little) things announced on the first day of WWDC.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Search this video…Seventeen big and little things from Apple WWDC23.Meet a new friend?Swap info, like that, with NameDrop.And your contact poster that you'll design and redesignwill show up when you call or FaceTime.They missed it?Leave a FaceTime message.And when you do connect, easily switch from iPhone to Apple TV.Wait, where's the Siri remote?Now iPhone will find that too.And you'll find the perfect reactionwith stickers from your own photos.Ooh, shiny.Reflect on your day with suggestionsfrom your photos, music, locations, even workouts,or just get some stuff off your chest.Then clear your head with a long ride.Get lost for a little while, but not like lost, lost,because you can take topographic and offline maps with you.And Snoopy too!Check In automatically lets a friend know when you get home.And while you're out, Adaptive Audiokeeps your attention on the important sounds around you.Speaking of,multiple timers and widgets are now on all your devices,including the world's thinnest 15-inch laptop,the new MacBook Air.Put in some serious work with Game Mode on Mac.When you're charging iPhone,Standby will turn it into a simple clock, a music player,or even a live scoreboard.Ugh, I might have to take this.♪ Elevator music ♪Nope!Screen your calls with Live Voicemail.That's so  cool!A-ha! New and improved Autocorrect.And you can log your moods and emotionsright on iPhone, iPad, and watch.Hold on.There was something else -- something really big.♪ Piano music bridge ♪This.♪♪Yeah. It was a big day.Get all the updates on apple.com.♪

Seventeen big and little things from Apple WWDC23.

Meet a new friend?Swap info, like that, with NameDrop.

And your contact poster that you'll design and redesignwill show up when you call or FaceTime.

They missed it?Leave a FaceTime message.

And when you do connect, easily switch from iPhone to Apple TV.

Wait, where's the Siri remote?Now iPhone will find that too.

And you'll find the perfect reactionwith stickers from your own photos.

Ooh, shiny.

Reflect on your day with suggestionsfrom your photos, music, locations, even workouts,or just get some stuff off your chest.

Then clear your head with a long ride.

Get lost for a little while, but not like lost, lost,because you can take topographic and offline maps with you.

And Snoopy too!Check In automatically lets a friend know when you get home.

And while you're out, Adaptive Audiokeeps your attention on the important sounds around you.

Speaking of,multiple timers and widgets are now on all your devices,including the world's thinnest 15-inch laptop,the new MacBook Air.

Put in some serious work with Game Mode on Mac.

When you're charging iPhone,Standby will turn it into a simple clock, a music player,or even a live scoreboard.

Ugh, I might have to take this.

♪ Elevator music ♪Nope!Screen your calls with Live Voicemail.

That's so  cool!A-ha! New and improved Autocorrect.

And you can log your moods and emotionsright on iPhone, iPad, and watch.

Hold on.

There was something else -- something really big.

♪ Piano music bridge ♪This.

♪♪Yeah. It was a big day.

Get all the updates on apple.com.

♪

## Code Samples

