# Wwdc2023 10023

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Build a multi-device workout appLearn how you can get iPhone involved in your Apple Watch-based workout apps with HealthKit. We'll show you how to mirror workouts between devices and take a ride with cycling data types. Plus, get to know HealthKit for iPad.ResourcesBuilding a multidevice workout appHealthKitHealthKit updateswatchOS updatesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC23Build custom workouts with WorkoutKitWWDC21Build a workout app for Apple WatchWWDC20Synchronize health data with HealthKit

Learn how you can get iPhone involved in your Apple Watch-based workout apps with HealthKit. We'll show you how to mirror workouts between devices and take a ride with cycling data types. Plus, get to know HealthKit for iPad.

Building a multidevice workout app

HealthKit

HealthKit updates

watchOS updates

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Build custom workouts with WorkoutKit

Build a workout app for Apple Watch

Synchronize health data with HealthKit

Search this video…♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hop ♪♪Hello and welcome.My name is Sirisha,and I'm an engineer on the HealthKit team.Today, there are hundreds of health and fitness appsin the App Store that help users get healthy and stay healthy.And for them all,HealthKit provides a centralized encrypted database,so your amazing apps can show your users a cohesive viewof their health data.Now, the Workout APIs are some of the most powerfulthat HealthKit provides, and I love them.For today's video, I've created a sample cycling appfor Apple Watch to track my cycling workouts.And for easier access, I would love to mount my iPhoneon the handlebars to use as a cycling computer.That way, I can get a quick and easy viewof the live metrics displayed on my Apple Watchwithout having to take my hands off the handlebars.HealthKit is introducing new Workout APIsto control and mirror active workout sessionsbetween Apple Watch and iPhone.Updating support for cycling workoutswith the addition of new data typesfor tracking cycling speed, power, cadence,and functional threshold power, or FTP.And if that wasn't enough,HealthKit along with the Health app is now on iPad.Now, your customers signed into their iCloud account on iPadwill see their health data synced through HealthKitto their iPad.Just imagine the richer healthand post-workout experience you can provide.Today, I'll use my sample app to demonstratehow to mirror a workout running on Apple Watchwith a paired iPhone.Then, I'll add some code to show youhow to collect new cycling metricsand sync them across devices.And I'll wrap up with the authorization detailsrequired to display workouts on iPad.So let's check out how Apple Watch, iPhone, and iPadcan work together to provide a great workout experience.In my example, I'm running the workout on Apple Watch.I'm using a workout session as a centralized objectto manage its life cycle, starting, pausing, and stopping.If you're not already familiar with workout sessions,you might want to watch previous talks,"New ways 'to work with Workouts,"and "Build a workout app for Apple Watch."Now, for me to control the workout from my iPhone,I need to get this workout sessionfrom my Apple Watch to my iPhone.And to do so, I'll use HealthKit'snew mirrored session APIs.When a mirrored session starts on my Apple Watch,if my iPhone app is not running,it will be launched in the backgroundand handed over the workout session.To receive the session, my iPhone app needs to be ready.So, first I'll set up a handlerin the iPhone app launch sequence using the HealthStore.That way, it will be ready to receive the sessionfrom my Apple Watch.Every time my iPhone app is launchedin the foreground or the background,I'll implement the mirroring start handlerin order to receive the active workout sessionpassed from my Apple Watch.Next, I'll create a workout configurationwith an activity type of cycling.Then I'll call the existing Start Watch App APIin my iPhone app to launch the app on my paired Apple Watchand pass the workout configuration.When I receive the configuration from my iPhone,I can create a workout session in my Apple Watch app.The workout session on my Apple Watchis called the primary session.And the workout session on my iPhoneis called the mirrored session.So here's how it looks.When I start a workout in my iPhone app,my app on my Apple Watch gets launchedwith the configuration sent from my iPhone.So far, so good.Now the thing that makes this API so convenientis that HealthKit takes care of keepingboth the primary and the mirrored session states in sync.For example, when the primary session is pausedon my Apple Watch,the mirrored session on my iPhone is paused as well.In addition to getting a copy of the active workout sessionto my iPhone, HealthKit also provides a new APIto exchange relevant workout data between both devices,and provides the ability to begin and end activitiesas well as generate events.OK, now that I have my primary session readyand my iPhone ready to receive the handler,I'll start mirroring from my Apple Watchby calling startMirroringToCompanionDeviceand start the primary session.Once I call startMirroring on Apple Watch,HealthKit launches my companion iPhone app in the background,gives my app 10 seconds to start a live activityand call a handler to start mirroring.Great, so we have started the session on the Apple Watchand got the copy on iPhone.Now, let me show you how the session stateis communicated between the devices.In my example app, I want to show my usersthe state of the workout session,like whether the session is running, paused, et cetera.So I'll set up the session delegate on Apple Watchand iPhone to monitor the session state updatesand the events generated.Keep in mind that it is important to keep a referenceto the retrieved mirrored session on the iPhone app.Calling startActivity on my Apple Watchstarts the primary sessionand changes the session state to running.This state update is delivered to my Apple Watch appsince it's set as session delegate of the primary session.My app on my iPhone also gets the state updatethrough the mirrored session delegate.It's that easy to bring an active workout session to iPhoneand monitor the changes on a session.So here's what it looks like.When a workout session is started on my Apple Watch,the pause button on my iPhone and my Apple Watchis activated to indicate that the workout session is running.In addition to syncing session statesbetween the primary and the mirrored session,I can also generate and send events like pause and resume.When I pause the workout session on my Apple Watch,both my Apple Watch appand the mirrored session on my iPhoneget notified about the pause eventthrough their session delegate.And that looks like this.When I pause a workout session on my Apple Watch,the resume button on both my devices becomes active.Now that I have a workout session on my iPhone,I can control the workout from iPhone as well.When I resume the mirrored session on my iPhone,the primary session delegate on my Apple Watchgets notified about the state changeand the mirrored session delegate gets a resume event.Next, I would like to show you how to take advantageof the new cycling featuresHealthKit is introducing this year,including new data types such as cycling speed, power, cadence;a new ability to directly connect to Bluetooth devicesdesigned to provide these data types,similar to how a heart rate monitor collects and writesheart rate data to the health database;and finally, the ability for HealthKit on Apple Watchto automatically calculate and save FTPbased on the data collected from these Bluetooth devices.My bike has a power meter that collects power and cadence,which I paired with my Apple Watch.The sensor writes the data to my Apple Watch,and I would like to extend my app to send that datato my iPhone for display as I ride.To do this, I'll first start collecting cycling metricsusing the recommended workout builder API beginCollection.And then I'll send the datausing the sendData(toRemoteWorkoutSession) API.To send the cycling metrics, I'll package the speed,cadence, and power data received from Bluetooth sensorson my Apple Watch and callsendData(toRemoteWorkoutSession) on the primary session.As a result, the mirrored session delegate on my iPhonewill receive the didReceiveDataFromRemoteDevicecall with the package data,which I can unpack and display on my iPhone.Here is how it looks like with my example appsending cycling metrics from my Apple Watchand how they are displayed in my iPhone app.Using sendData(toRemoteWorkoutSession)I can also send data in the opposite directionfrom my iPhone to my Apple Watch.In my example, I want to keep track of my water intakeduring a workout so I can analyze it afterwardsin the hopes of creating a better hydration planfor my next ride.To do this, I'll package and sendthe amount of water I consume on the mirrored sessionfrom my iPhone to Apple Watch.The primary session's delegate methoddidReceiveDataFromRemoteDevice is called with the packaged datawhich I'll unpack and save on my Apple Watch.So here's how it looks in my example app.When I tap the button to count each ounce of water I take,it sends it to my Apple Watch,where it displays the total amount of water consumed.Now I can stop mirroring the session anytimeduring the workout by callingstopMirroringToCompanionDevice API.Calling this method will stop sending datato the companion device and the mirrored session'sdidDisconnectFromRemoteDevice WithError delegate methodwill be called.And when I'm done cycling, I'll end the primary sessionand save it on the Apple Watch by finishing the builder.After saving the workout sample on Apple Watch,it syncs to my other devices, and I can now showthe post-workout summary with more detailed chartsand visualizations.Great! My next step is to present the post-workout summaryin my app running on my iPad.Since the workout I just saved on Apple Watchautomatically syncs to iPad,I only need to make a few changesto visualize my workout data.Like any app accessing HealthKit data,my app on iPad will will first need to get user authorization.When an app requests authorization,the authorization sheet is shown if needed.On iPad, your app might have multiple window scenes,so it's important to ensure that the authorization sheetis shown over the appropriate scene.To do this in my app,I'll first import HealthKitUI framework.I'll specify the data types I'm interested in reading,specifically active energy, cycling speed, power, cadence,heart rate, and workout samples.Then, since I built a SwiftUI app,I'll use the new healthDataAccessRequestview modifier from the HealthKitUI frameworkand pass the data types I want to share and read,as well as a trigger.Setting the trigger to truewill present the authorization sheet in my app.For a UIKit app, you would set thehealthStores.authorizationView ControllerPresenter property,and then request authorizationwith the types to share and read.Now, with the authorization taken care of,let's check out my workout on iPad.Amazing!Now I can access my workout dataand take advantage of the iPad's screen sizeto create a richer experience for my app.Isn't it super easy?Now you can start and control a workout from your iPhone,collect and sync rich cycling data from your Apple Watch,and finally, view the workout details on your iPad.To wrap up, be sure to update your appto support authorization on iPad.If your Fitness app involves cycling,you can add support for new data types.If you build workout apps on iPhone and Apple Watch,check out the new mirrored session APIsto start mirroring data and controlling statebetween both devices.If your app needs it, use sync identifiers and version numbersto keep the data consistentacross your server and users' devices.And finally, give us your feedback.We want to support the features you needto keep building those amazing apps to keep the world healthy.Thank you for watching.♪

♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hop ♪♪Hello and welcome.

My name is Sirisha,and I'm an engineer on the HealthKit team.

Today, there are hundreds of health and fitness appsin the App Store that help users get healthy and stay healthy.

And for them all,HealthKit provides a centralized encrypted database,so your amazing apps can show your users a cohesive viewof their health data.

Now, the Workout APIs are some of the most powerfulthat HealthKit provides, and I love them.

For today's video, I've created a sample cycling appfor Apple Watch to track my cycling workouts.

And for easier access, I would love to mount my iPhoneon the handlebars to use as a cycling computer.

That way, I can get a quick and easy viewof the live metrics displayed on my Apple Watchwithout having to take my hands off the handlebars.

HealthKit is introducing new Workout APIsto control and mirror active workout sessionsbetween Apple Watch and iPhone.

Updating support for cycling workoutswith the addition of new data typesfor tracking cycling speed, power, cadence,and functional threshold power, or FTP.

And if that wasn't enough,HealthKit along with the Health app is now on iPad.

Now, your customers signed into their iCloud account on iPadwill see their health data synced through HealthKitto their iPad.

Just imagine the richer healthand post-workout experience you can provide.

Today, I'll use my sample app to demonstratehow to mirror a workout running on Apple Watchwith a paired iPhone.

Then, I'll add some code to show youhow to collect new cycling metricsand sync them across devices.

And I'll wrap up with the authorization detailsrequired to display workouts on iPad.

So let's check out how Apple Watch, iPhone, and iPadcan work together to provide a great workout experience.

In my example, I'm running the workout on Apple Watch.

I'm using a workout session as a centralized objectto manage its life cycle, starting, pausing, and stopping.

If you're not already familiar with workout sessions,you might want to watch previous talks,"New ways 'to work with Workouts,"and "Build a workout app for Apple Watch."Now, for me to control the workout from my iPhone,I need to get this workout sessionfrom my Apple Watch to my iPhone.

And to do so, I'll use HealthKit'snew mirrored session APIs.

When a mirrored session starts on my Apple Watch,if my iPhone app is not running,it will be launched in the backgroundand handed over the workout session.

To receive the session, my iPhone app needs to be ready.

So, first I'll set up a handlerin the iPhone app launch sequence using the HealthStore.

That way, it will be ready to receive the sessionfrom my Apple Watch.

Every time my iPhone app is launchedin the foreground or the background,I'll implement the mirroring start handlerin order to receive the active workout sessionpassed from my Apple Watch.

Next, I'll create a workout configurationwith an activity type of cycling.

Then I'll call the existing Start Watch App APIin my iPhone app to launch the app on my paired Apple Watchand pass the workout configuration.

When I receive the configuration from my iPhone,I can create a workout session in my Apple Watch app.

The workout session on my Apple Watchis called the primary session.

And the workout session on my iPhoneis called the mirrored session.

So here's how it looks.

When I start a workout in my iPhone app,my app on my Apple Watch gets launchedwith the configuration sent from my iPhone.

So far, so good.

Now the thing that makes this API so convenientis that HealthKit takes care of keepingboth the primary and the mirrored session states in sync.

For example, when the primary session is pausedon my Apple Watch,the mirrored session on my iPhone is paused as well.

In addition to getting a copy of the active workout sessionto my iPhone, HealthKit also provides a new APIto exchange relevant workout data between both devices,and provides the ability to begin and end activitiesas well as generate events.

OK, now that I have my primary session readyand my iPhone ready to receive the handler,I'll start mirroring from my Apple Watchby calling startMirroringToCompanionDeviceand start the primary session.

Once I call startMirroring on Apple Watch,HealthKit launches my companion iPhone app in the background,gives my app 10 seconds to start a live activityand call a handler to start mirroring.

Great, so we have started the session on the Apple Watchand got the copy on iPhone.

Now, let me show you how the session stateis communicated between the devices.

In my example app, I want to show my usersthe state of the workout session,like whether the session is running, paused, et cetera.

So I'll set up the session delegate on Apple Watchand iPhone to monitor the session state updatesand the events generated.

Keep in mind that it is important to keep a referenceto the retrieved mirrored session on the iPhone app.

Calling startActivity on my Apple Watchstarts the primary sessionand changes the session state to running.

This state update is delivered to my Apple Watch appsince it's set as session delegate of the primary session.

My app on my iPhone also gets the state updatethrough the mirrored session delegate.

It's that easy to bring an active workout session to iPhoneand monitor the changes on a session.

So here's what it looks like.

When a workout session is started on my Apple Watch,the pause button on my iPhone and my Apple Watchis activated to indicate that the workout session is running.

In addition to syncing session statesbetween the primary and the mirrored session,I can also generate and send events like pause and resume.

When I pause the workout session on my Apple Watch,both my Apple Watch appand the mirrored session on my iPhoneget notified about the pause eventthrough their session delegate.

And that looks like this.

When I pause a workout session on my Apple Watch,the resume button on both my devices becomes active.

Now that I have a workout session on my iPhone,I can control the workout from iPhone as well.

When I resume the mirrored session on my iPhone,the primary session delegate on my Apple Watchgets notified about the state changeand the mirrored session delegate gets a resume event.

Next, I would like to show you how to take advantageof the new cycling featuresHealthKit is introducing this year,including new data types such as cycling speed, power, cadence;a new ability to directly connect to Bluetooth devicesdesigned to provide these data types,similar to how a heart rate monitor collects and writesheart rate data to the health database;and finally, the ability for HealthKit on Apple Watchto automatically calculate and save FTPbased on the data collected from these Bluetooth devices.

My bike has a power meter that collects power and cadence,which I paired with my Apple Watch.

The sensor writes the data to my Apple Watch,and I would like to extend my app to send that datato my iPhone for display as I ride.

To do this, I'll first start collecting cycling metricsusing the recommended workout builder API beginCollection.

And then I'll send the datausing the sendData(toRemoteWorkoutSession) API.

To send the cycling metrics, I'll package the speed,cadence, and power data received from Bluetooth sensorson my Apple Watch and callsendData(toRemoteWorkoutSession) on the primary session.

As a result, the mirrored session delegate on my iPhonewill receive the didReceiveDataFromRemoteDevicecall with the package data,which I can unpack and display on my iPhone.

Here is how it looks like with my example appsending cycling metrics from my Apple Watchand how they are displayed in my iPhone app.

Using sendData(toRemoteWorkoutSession)I can also send data in the opposite directionfrom my iPhone to my Apple Watch.

In my example, I want to keep track of my water intakeduring a workout so I can analyze it afterwardsin the hopes of creating a better hydration planfor my next ride.

To do this, I'll package and sendthe amount of water I consume on the mirrored sessionfrom my iPhone to Apple Watch.

The primary session's delegate methoddidReceiveDataFromRemoteDevice is called with the packaged datawhich I'll unpack and save on my Apple Watch.

So here's how it looks in my example app.

When I tap the button to count each ounce of water I take,it sends it to my Apple Watch,where it displays the total amount of water consumed.

Now I can stop mirroring the session anytimeduring the workout by callingstopMirroringToCompanionDevice API.

Calling this method will stop sending datato the companion device and the mirrored session'sdidDisconnectFromRemoteDevice WithError delegate methodwill be called.

And when I'm done cycling, I'll end the primary sessionand save it on the Apple Watch by finishing the builder.

After saving the workout sample on Apple Watch,it syncs to my other devices, and I can now showthe post-workout summary with more detailed chartsand visualizations.

Great! My next step is to present the post-workout summaryin my app running on my iPad.

Since the workout I just saved on Apple Watchautomatically syncs to iPad,I only need to make a few changesto visualize my workout data.

Like any app accessing HealthKit data,my app on iPad will will first need to get user authorization.

When an app requests authorization,the authorization sheet is shown if needed.

On iPad, your app might have multiple window scenes,so it's important to ensure that the authorization sheetis shown over the appropriate scene.

To do this in my app,I'll first import HealthKitUI framework.

I'll specify the data types I'm interested in reading,specifically active energy, cycling speed, power, cadence,heart rate, and workout samples.

Then, since I built a SwiftUI app,I'll use the new healthDataAccessRequestview modifier from the HealthKitUI frameworkand pass the data types I want to share and read,as well as a trigger.

Setting the trigger to truewill present the authorization sheet in my app.

For a UIKit app, you would set thehealthStores.authorizationView ControllerPresenter property,and then request authorizationwith the types to share and read.

Now, with the authorization taken care of,let's check out my workout on iPad.

Amazing!Now I can access my workout dataand take advantage of the iPad's screen sizeto create a richer experience for my app.

Isn't it super easy?Now you can start and control a workout from your iPhone,collect and sync rich cycling data from your Apple Watch,and finally, view the workout details on your iPad.

To wrap up, be sure to update your appto support authorization on iPad.

If your Fitness app involves cycling,you can add support for new data types.

If you build workout apps on iPhone and Apple Watch,check out the new mirrored session APIsto start mirroring data and controlling statebetween both devices.

If your app needs it, use sync identifiers and version numbersto keep the data consistentacross your server and users' devices.

And finally, give us your feedback.

We want to support the features you needto keep building those amazing apps to keep the world healthy.

Thank you for watching.

♪

## Code Samples

