# Wwdc2023 10271

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Explore immersive sound designDiscover how you can use sound to enhance the experience of your visionOS apps and games. Learn how Apple designers select sounds and build soundscapes to create textural, immersive experiences. We'll share how you can enrich basic interactions in your app with sound when you place audio cues spatially, vary repetitive sounds, and build moments of sonic delight into your app.ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC23Design for spatial inputDesign for spatial user interfacesDesign spatial SharePlay experiencesPrinciples of spatial designWWDC17Designing Sound

Discover how you can use sound to enhance the experience of your visionOS apps and games. Learn how Apple designers select sounds and build soundscapes to create textural, immersive experiences. We'll share how you can enrich basic interactions in your app with sound when you place audio cues spatially, vary repetitive sounds, and build moments of sonic delight into your app.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Design for spatial input

Design for spatial user interfaces

Design spatial SharePlay experiences

Principles of spatial design

Designing Sound

Search this video…♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hop ♪♪Welcome to "Explore immersive sound design."I'm Danielle Price, and I'm a sound designeron the Design team.The content in this talk will include spatial audio examples,so for the best experienceI recommend wearing headphones.While not everyone watching this talk is a sound professional,we all have some expertise in spatial audiojust from being human.I'll illustrate this with an exampleyou might be familiar with.Let's say I can't find my iPhone.I'll ping it from my Apple Watch and track it down.I hear it out of my right ear...It's getting louder; I'm getting closer.Found it!I'm able to locate the soundbecause I'm aware of the direction and the volume.As you can see, we use spatial audio constantlyto navigate the world.And in this case, I used it to locate my iPhone in the room.Like we saw in the Find My example,in the real world,sound reverberates through and around our space,bouncing off walls and furniturebefore arriving at a person's ears.Well, the system can mimic this behaviorbecause it understands the spaces around you.Now I'm going explain more abouthow Spatial Audio works on the headsetand the different ways that we can design for it.First, I'll break downhow Spatial Audio works within the system.Then I will talk through some examplesabout how to design sounds for the UI and immersive apps.So back to this idea of recreating soundsfrom the real world.The device adapts to different spacesand adds reverberation from your spaceto make things sound like they're really in the room.Spatial audio sources will sound like they are closeror farther away depending on where they're placed.I'm going to play the Find My sound a couple different waysso you can hear how this works.First, here's the original sound that I exported.Notice how it sounds clean and front and center.OK, now here's the same sound but played in a different space,like this living room.Also notice that the sound is coming from in front of you,but also that it's directionallycoming from the right side of the couch.The system considers the size and materials in your roomto allow accurate playback of audio.I know this is a simple example but this concept helps definehow we hear sound on this platform.You may already be familiarwith Spatial Audio for music and media,and now you're able to extend thatby playing sounds in your appsas if they are coming from where you place them.I'll be referring to these sounds as spatial audio sources.Let's look at how this applies to interaction sounds.When we interact with the system using our hands and eyes,we're not touching anything physical.So by adding subtle sounds to each interaction,we help give the user a sense of familiarity and confidence.Here's an example of the virtual keyboard.Listen for the sound of each key pressand how it comes from its locationon the keyboard in front of you.Each time you interact with the keys,the familiar sound confirms your action.A quick note on repetition:you may notice each key press sounds a little different.When you know a sound will be played often,it helps to slightly randomize some elements of the soundlike its pitch and amplitude.It feels more natural and less staticwhen keys are pressed in rapid succession.Consider this to make your app feel more natural.Next, let's look at another exampleof how we designed the UI sounds you hear in the system.When we started designing the Photos app,there were certain interactions we wanted to emphasizewith sound, like selecting a photo from the gridand transitioning from 2D to 3D.Or when you're browsing through your photo album.So, where do we start our sound design exploration?Well, we could record the sound of a window opening.Or would that be a little too literal?Let's have a listen.And if we go that route, maybe we can usethe sounds of moving through projector slidesfor the browsing interaction.While certainly interesting sound design examples,they don't really fit the visual aesthetic of the experience.We wanted the sounds in Photosto fit in with the rest of the system sounds,and also highlight a sense of depth.We think a good UI sound has to be subtleand give just enough feedback to be helpful.That said, for your own appyou can add some character, of course,but strive to make it fit with the overall feel of the UI.With this in mind, let's have a look again,this time with the new sounds we designed.Much better.The sounds align with the rest of the OS soundsand match the timing of the transitions.When you begin to add interaction soundsto your own app, keep in mindpeople may hear them quite often,so keeping those sounds subtle is important.OK, now that we've learned about the role of UI soundson the device, let's talk about using soundin some more immersive experiences.Let's look at one of our environments, Mount Hood.These environments are fully immersive experiencesin the system.Each place has a light and dark version.And both have a realistic spatial soundscape to match.The overall goal for these soundscapesis to be peaceful representations of reality.They could play underneath the various apps you're using,and are meant to be subtle, not distracting.Let's talk about some different ways to design, record,and mix sounds for these experiences.As we began to think about the sound design for each place,one of the first things we asked ourselves was,how accurate should they sound?We went to the various locations to record,and the actual soundscapes often surprised us --and not always in a good way.Let's take a look at some of my personal footagefrom the Mount Hood location.I just love this shot.When we did preproduction planning,I would look at the images, close my eyes,and imagine the peaceful soundscapeof birdsongs and soft winds in the distance.Of course it was beautiful and those things do exist,but that wasn't all there was.Let's take a look at footage from just to the rightof where I took this photo.What you're seeing and hearingis actually a large water drainage system.And the noise is so loudyou can't really hear any other nature sounds.That noise reminds me of something else;let's listen again.Not really what we were looking for.As designers and developers, we have the freedomto curate the best user experience for our app.In this case, we wanted to stay as close to reality as possible.But if we have the chance to make something more pleasantthan what actually exists, we should.So feel free to recreate and curate the best of reality,making the sound of your applicationcomplement its visuals in the best way possible.Now let's talk more about the audio recording process.For the ambient background audio,we used a series of different microphonesthat record immersive audio, like the one in this photograph.The goal for these recordings was to capturehow the air sounds all around you in a place.We would record all through the day and nightto make sure we captured the entire range of sound activity.Generally, we set out in search of placeswith as little noise pollution as possible,which usually required going off the beaten path.These natural recordings would become the base layersthat play under the spatial audio sources.We would use high-sensitivity directional microphonesthat could zoom in on that specific soundwe were looking for.If you work with a professional sound designer,they can record sounds for you, but there are also plentyof professional high-quality sound librariesthat could be a great source of sounds for your app.Now, once we've recorded our sounds,how do we create a realistic soundscape?Remember the Find My soundplaying from one point in the room?We used that same thinkingfor placing audio objects in environments.Once again, we can draw from real-life experiences.When we go outside, there are many different types of animalsthat make sounds from different locationsand they all layer together to make a soundscape.Our job is to recreate thatwith the right distance and placement.So let's take everything we've learnedand create a mix for Mount Hood.There are two main categories of sounds we usewhen putting together a soundscape.Spatial audio sources, which are sound elementsthat occupy a point in space like birds, crickets, frogs.These sounds were generally placedin the foreground and midground of an environment,but you can place them anywhere in your app.And the ambient background audio,this is the overall ambience of a place.They are surround audio files anchored to play all around youand loop continuously without being noticeable.I'll use these emojis to representwhere we placed them in environments.First, let's try placing the soundsof the crickets and frogs on the left and the right.Now let's adjust this.It's way too loud and feels too close,so we need to do two things.First, turn down the volume of each a few decibels,And then push the location of the sound into the distanceso it can sound further away.Let's listen again.It's starting to feel more natural.Now, let's add a couple of frogs in the foreground,on the shore line.That sounds really great,but we don't want to hear the same frog over and over againfrom the same spot.So if we use randomization,we can create a more natural soundscape.We could achieve that by alternating betweena collection of different frog recordingsas well as the location they are playing from.From there, we can randomizethe timing of when they are played.OK, now let's listen to everything together.There's still one more thing we need to add.Remember the ambient backgrounds we mentioned earlier?Let's listen with the visual.These sounds are played in surround,softly adding ambience to the space around you.Now, let's listen to all the sounds togetheras it's experienced in the mix.So let's recap our visit to Mount Hood.Randomization will be a recurring theme.Like we mentioned with the virtual keyboard typing,and with the foreground frog sources,be careful when repeating sounds over long periods of time.Use randomization to affect how things playand to mix it up.Consider placement.Putting sounds in the distance on the systemis a tool to move things back in spaceand sound farther away.And in parallel with distance,sometimes you need to turn down the volume of an assetto achieve the right balance.Now let's look at the same conceptswe used for Environmentsand apply them to an examplethat doesn't use a fully immersive space.As an opening moment to the onboarding experience,we wanted to fill the space with soundbut also call attention to the animation writing “hello.”Here, too, we make use of the foreground and background.Here's what it sounds like with just the foreground sound.The animation indicates the source of the sound.It's important to note that even if your app takes placein your physical room,you can still use an immersive soundscapeto fill the space with sound.Like with the environments,we used a combination of a spatial audio sourceand an ambient background sound.Let's take a look at the video againwith the ambience added to the mix.You'll hear it echo in the backgroundand fill up the space.Whether you're moving on quicklyor staying in an experience longer,this layered approach keeps it interesting and interactive.In your own app, this could work wellfor a menu or title screen.Let's recap.We looked at how Spatial Audio enables usto attach sounds to the UI we see around us in the system,how sound can play a big role in making the UI feel responsiveand confirm users' interactions,and how we can design an immersive spatial experiencethat's lively and captivating.I hope this helped inspire you to use soundto enrich the experience of your app,making it more engaging and fun to use.Thanks for listening.♪

♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hop ♪♪Welcome to "Explore immersive sound design."I'm Danielle Price, and I'm a sound designeron the Design team.

The content in this talk will include spatial audio examples,so for the best experienceI recommend wearing headphones.

While not everyone watching this talk is a sound professional,we all have some expertise in spatial audiojust from being human.

I'll illustrate this with an exampleyou might be familiar with.

Let's say I can't find my iPhone.

I'll ping it from my Apple Watch and track it down.

I hear it out of my right ear...

It's getting louder; I'm getting closer.

Found it!I'm able to locate the soundbecause I'm aware of the direction and the volume.

As you can see, we use spatial audio constantlyto navigate the world.

And in this case, I used it to locate my iPhone in the room.

Like we saw in the Find My example,in the real world,sound reverberates through and around our space,bouncing off walls and furniturebefore arriving at a person's ears.

Well, the system can mimic this behaviorbecause it understands the spaces around you.

Now I'm going explain more abouthow Spatial Audio works on the headsetand the different ways that we can design for it.

First, I'll break downhow Spatial Audio works within the system.

Then I will talk through some examplesabout how to design sounds for the UI and immersive apps.

So back to this idea of recreating soundsfrom the real world.

The device adapts to different spacesand adds reverberation from your spaceto make things sound like they're really in the room.

Spatial audio sources will sound like they are closeror farther away depending on where they're placed.

I'm going to play the Find My sound a couple different waysso you can hear how this works.

First, here's the original sound that I exported.

Notice how it sounds clean and front and center.

OK, now here's the same sound but played in a different space,like this living room.

Also notice that the sound is coming from in front of you,but also that it's directionallycoming from the right side of the couch.

The system considers the size and materials in your roomto allow accurate playback of audio.

I know this is a simple example but this concept helps definehow we hear sound on this platform.

You may already be familiarwith Spatial Audio for music and media,and now you're able to extend thatby playing sounds in your appsas if they are coming from where you place them.

I'll be referring to these sounds as spatial audio sources.

Let's look at how this applies to interaction sounds.

When we interact with the system using our hands and eyes,we're not touching anything physical.

So by adding subtle sounds to each interaction,we help give the user a sense of familiarity and confidence.

Here's an example of the virtual keyboard.

Listen for the sound of each key pressand how it comes from its locationon the keyboard in front of you.

Each time you interact with the keys,the familiar sound confirms your action.

A quick note on repetition:you may notice each key press sounds a little different.

When you know a sound will be played often,it helps to slightly randomize some elements of the soundlike its pitch and amplitude.

It feels more natural and less staticwhen keys are pressed in rapid succession.

Consider this to make your app feel more natural.

Next, let's look at another exampleof how we designed the UI sounds you hear in the system.

When we started designing the Photos app,there were certain interactions we wanted to emphasizewith sound, like selecting a photo from the gridand transitioning from 2D to 3D.

Or when you're browsing through your photo album.

So, where do we start our sound design exploration?Well, we could record the sound of a window opening.

Or would that be a little too literal?Let's have a listen.

And if we go that route, maybe we can usethe sounds of moving through projector slidesfor the browsing interaction.

While certainly interesting sound design examples,they don't really fit the visual aesthetic of the experience.

We wanted the sounds in Photosto fit in with the rest of the system sounds,and also highlight a sense of depth.

We think a good UI sound has to be subtleand give just enough feedback to be helpful.

That said, for your own appyou can add some character, of course,but strive to make it fit with the overall feel of the UI.

With this in mind, let's have a look again,this time with the new sounds we designed.

Much better.

The sounds align with the rest of the OS soundsand match the timing of the transitions.

When you begin to add interaction soundsto your own app, keep in mindpeople may hear them quite often,so keeping those sounds subtle is important.

OK, now that we've learned about the role of UI soundson the device, let's talk about using soundin some more immersive experiences.

Let's look at one of our environments, Mount Hood.

These environments are fully immersive experiencesin the system.

Each place has a light and dark version.

And both have a realistic spatial soundscape to match.

The overall goal for these soundscapesis to be peaceful representations of reality.

They could play underneath the various apps you're using,and are meant to be subtle, not distracting.

Let's talk about some different ways to design, record,and mix sounds for these experiences.

As we began to think about the sound design for each place,one of the first things we asked ourselves was,how accurate should they sound?We went to the various locations to record,and the actual soundscapes often surprised us --and not always in a good way.

Let's take a look at some of my personal footagefrom the Mount Hood location.

I just love this shot.

When we did preproduction planning,I would look at the images, close my eyes,and imagine the peaceful soundscapeof birdsongs and soft winds in the distance.

Of course it was beautiful and those things do exist,but that wasn't all there was.

Let's take a look at footage from just to the rightof where I took this photo.

What you're seeing and hearingis actually a large water drainage system.

And the noise is so loudyou can't really hear any other nature sounds.

That noise reminds me of something else;let's listen again.

Not really what we were looking for.

As designers and developers, we have the freedomto curate the best user experience for our app.

In this case, we wanted to stay as close to reality as possible.

But if we have the chance to make something more pleasantthan what actually exists, we should.

So feel free to recreate and curate the best of reality,making the sound of your applicationcomplement its visuals in the best way possible.

Now let's talk more about the audio recording process.

For the ambient background audio,we used a series of different microphonesthat record immersive audio, like the one in this photograph.

The goal for these recordings was to capturehow the air sounds all around you in a place.

We would record all through the day and nightto make sure we captured the entire range of sound activity.

Generally, we set out in search of placeswith as little noise pollution as possible,which usually required going off the beaten path.

These natural recordings would become the base layersthat play under the spatial audio sources.

We would use high-sensitivity directional microphonesthat could zoom in on that specific soundwe were looking for.

If you work with a professional sound designer,they can record sounds for you, but there are also plentyof professional high-quality sound librariesthat could be a great source of sounds for your app.

Now, once we've recorded our sounds,how do we create a realistic soundscape?Remember the Find My soundplaying from one point in the room?We used that same thinkingfor placing audio objects in environments.

Once again, we can draw from real-life experiences.

When we go outside, there are many different types of animalsthat make sounds from different locationsand they all layer together to make a soundscape.

Our job is to recreate thatwith the right distance and placement.

So let's take everything we've learnedand create a mix for Mount Hood.

There are two main categories of sounds we usewhen putting together a soundscape.

Spatial audio sources, which are sound elementsthat occupy a point in space like birds, crickets, frogs.

These sounds were generally placedin the foreground and midground of an environment,but you can place them anywhere in your app.

And the ambient background audio,this is the overall ambience of a place.

They are surround audio files anchored to play all around youand loop continuously without being noticeable.

I'll use these emojis to representwhere we placed them in environments.

First, let's try placing the soundsof the crickets and frogs on the left and the right.

Now let's adjust this.

It's way too loud and feels too close,so we need to do two things.

First, turn down the volume of each a few decibels,And then push the location of the sound into the distanceso it can sound further away.

Let's listen again.

It's starting to feel more natural.

Now, let's add a couple of frogs in the foreground,on the shore line.

That sounds really great,but we don't want to hear the same frog over and over againfrom the same spot.

So if we use randomization,we can create a more natural soundscape.

We could achieve that by alternating betweena collection of different frog recordingsas well as the location they are playing from.

From there, we can randomizethe timing of when they are played.

OK, now let's listen to everything together.

There's still one more thing we need to add.

Remember the ambient backgrounds we mentioned earlier?Let's listen with the visual.

These sounds are played in surround,softly adding ambience to the space around you.

Now, let's listen to all the sounds togetheras it's experienced in the mix.

So let's recap our visit to Mount Hood.

Randomization will be a recurring theme.

Like we mentioned with the virtual keyboard typing,and with the foreground frog sources,be careful when repeating sounds over long periods of time.

Use randomization to affect how things playand to mix it up.

Consider placement.

Putting sounds in the distance on the systemis a tool to move things back in spaceand sound farther away.

And in parallel with distance,sometimes you need to turn down the volume of an assetto achieve the right balance.

Now let's look at the same conceptswe used for Environmentsand apply them to an examplethat doesn't use a fully immersive space.

As an opening moment to the onboarding experience,we wanted to fill the space with soundbut also call attention to the animation writing “hello.”Here, too, we make use of the foreground and background.

Here's what it sounds like with just the foreground sound.

The animation indicates the source of the sound.

It's important to note that even if your app takes placein your physical room,you can still use an immersive soundscapeto fill the space with sound.

Like with the environments,we used a combination of a spatial audio sourceand an ambient background sound.

Let's take a look at the video againwith the ambience added to the mix.

You'll hear it echo in the backgroundand fill up the space.

Whether you're moving on quicklyor staying in an experience longer,this layered approach keeps it interesting and interactive.

In your own app, this could work wellfor a menu or title screen.

Let's recap.

We looked at how Spatial Audio enables usto attach sounds to the UI we see around us in the system,how sound can play a big role in making the UI feel responsiveand confirm users' interactions,and how we can design an immersive spatial experiencethat's lively and captivating.

I hope this helped inspire you to use soundto enrich the experience of your app,making it more engaging and fun to use.

Thanks for listening.

♪

## Code Samples

