# Wwdc2023 111488

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

What Apple developers need to know at WWDC23There's never been a better time to create for Apple platforms — including iOS, iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, and all-new visionOS.

Get insights from Apple engineers and designers with over 175 brand-new instructional video sessions covering the latest in hardware and software. 

All to help bring your ideas to over two billion Apple devices worldwide.ResourcesHD VideoSD Video

There's never been a better time to create for Apple platforms — including iOS, iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, and all-new visionOS.

Get insights from Apple engineers and designers with over 175 brand-new instructional video sessions covering the latest in hardware and software. 

All to help bring your ideas to over two billion Apple devices worldwide.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Search this video…Hey, developers, it's Dub Dub '23,where we're talking infinite possibilities.175 new sessions helping you bring your ideasonto two billion Apple devices,from hundreds of Apple engineers and designers.- Hello, everyone. - Hey, Allen.If you want to catch up on Swift data...- I'm excited to see what you will build....take widgets to new places, or design for watchOS 10,there's a session for that.SwiftUI custom animations, Xcode's enhanced test navigator,and Xcode previews, there's a session for that.- Let's jump right in.- Swift-DocC documentation, anyone?- Yeah.- You can unleash your AAA game with Apple siliconnow on Mac Pro and Mac Studio with M2.Boom!And of course, immerse yourself in visionOSand Reality Composer Pro.- It looks like we're up and running.- There's a bunch of sessions for that.♪ Upbeat electronic music ♪Get all of this and the platform State of the Unionat developer.apple.com.And if you find yourself dreaming about the future,there's a session for that.♪

Hey, developers, it's Dub Dub '23,where we're talking infinite possibilities.

175 new sessions helping you bring your ideasonto two billion Apple devices,from hundreds of Apple engineers and designers.

- Hello, everyone. - Hey, Allen.

If you want to catch up on Swift data...

- I'm excited to see what you will build.

...take widgets to new places, or design for watchOS 10,there's a session for that.

SwiftUI custom animations, Xcode's enhanced test navigator,and Xcode previews, there's a session for that.

- Let's jump right in.

- Swift-DocC documentation, anyone?- Yeah.

- You can unleash your AAA game with Apple siliconnow on Mac Pro and Mac Studio with M2.

Boom!And of course, immerse yourself in visionOSand Reality Composer Pro.

- It looks like we're up and running.

- There's a bunch of sessions for that.

♪ Upbeat electronic music ♪Get all of this and the platform State of the Unionat developer.apple.com.

And if you find yourself dreaming about the future,there's a session for that.

♪

## Code Samples

