# Wwdc2022 110933

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

WWDC22 Day 5 recapIt's time to close out Day 5 of WWDC with one last report.ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC22WWDC22 Day 1 recapWWDC22 Day 2 recapWWDC22 Day 3 recap

It's time to close out Day 5 of WWDC with one last report.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

WWDC22 Day 1 recap

WWDC22 Day 2 recap

WWDC22 Day 3 recap

Search this video…♪ Bass-heavy electronic music ♪It's time for your final report.♪First, we covered how to improve battery consumptionfor your apps.- Display is one of the major sourcesof power consumption.- We learned how to make a Swift Server appalongside an iOS app in Xcode.- Using Swift for building server componentshelps bridge this technology gap.- Then Neil showed us how to match audio catalogswith video using ShazamKit.- Now we have some important updatesthat streamline working with custom catalogs at scale.- We discovered how to create multiple windowsfor our iPad apps.- Here's an app I've builtto keep track of the books I'm reading.- And we closed out the weekwith a friendly device-to-device game of tic-tac-toe.- And that's how easy it is to connect devices to Apple TV.- Our training is complete, developers.You're ready for your mission.This message will self-destruct in 3... 2...Ah, just kidding!See you next year!♪

♪ Bass-heavy electronic music ♪It's time for your final report.

♪First, we covered how to improve battery consumptionfor your apps.

- Display is one of the major sourcesof power consumption.

- We learned how to make a Swift Server appalongside an iOS app in Xcode.

- Using Swift for building server componentshelps bridge this technology gap.

- Then Neil showed us how to match audio catalogswith video using ShazamKit.

- Now we have some important updatesthat streamline working with custom catalogs at scale.

- We discovered how to create multiple windowsfor our iPad apps.

- Here's an app I've builtto keep track of the books I'm reading.

- And we closed out the weekwith a friendly device-to-device game of tic-tac-toe.

- And that's how easy it is to connect devices to Apple TV.

- Our training is complete, developers.

You're ready for your mission.

This message will self-destruct in 3... 2...

Ah, just kidding!See you next year!♪

## Code Samples

