# Wwdc2022 110931

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

WWDC22 Day 3 recapYour Day 3 status report is here. Catch up on the latest from WWDC22 and discover what's coming to a Thursday near you.ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC22Build a desktop-class iPad appCompose custom layouts with SwiftUIDesign App ShortcutsDesign for ArabicDesign for Arabic · صمّم بالعربيDesign for Collaboration with MessagesDiscover advancements in iOS camera capture: Depth, focus, and multitaskingDiscover ARKit 6Go further with Complications in WidgetKitTrack down hangs with Xcode and on-device detectionTransform your geometry with Metal mesh shadersWWDC22 Day 1 recapWWDC22 Day 2 recapWWDC22 Day 4 recapWWDC22 Day 5 recap

Your Day 3 status report is here. Catch up on the latest from WWDC22 and discover what's coming to a Thursday near you.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Build a desktop-class iPad app

Compose custom layouts with SwiftUI

Design App Shortcuts

Design for Arabic

Design for Arabic · صمّم بالعربي

Design for Collaboration with Messages

Discover advancements in iOS camera capture: Depth, focus, and multitasking

Discover ARKit 6

Go further with Complications in WidgetKit

Track down hangs with Xcode and on-device detection

Transform your geometry with Metal mesh shaders

WWDC22 Day 1 recap

WWDC22 Day 2 recap

WWDC22 Day 4 recap

WWDC22 Day 5 recap

Search this video…♪ Bass-heavy electronic music ♪Now that I have your attention,here's your day three status report.♪We started our training with Lynnexploring new ways to design shortcuts for apps.- You're well on your way to an amazingApp Shortcuts experience.- Then we discovered how to make desktop-class iPad appswith Mohammed.- This allows apps to express the layoutthat's most appropriate to their content,while bringing more functionalityto the forefront of the UI.- Then found out how to take advantageof the latest iOS camera capture features.- This app has one more trick up its sleeve.I can tap around and point a spotlightat different objects in the scene.- We also showed off powerful toolsto create cool new layouts and views for apps with SwiftUI.- SwiftUI provides a rich set of building blocksthat you use to compose your app's interface.- Tomorrow's reports look something like this.♪- Go get 'em, tiger.- That's all for now.Await further instructions.♪

♪ Bass-heavy electronic music ♪Now that I have your attention,here's your day three status report.

♪We started our training with Lynnexploring new ways to design shortcuts for apps.

- You're well on your way to an amazingApp Shortcuts experience.

- Then we discovered how to make desktop-class iPad appswith Mohammed.

- This allows apps to express the layoutthat's most appropriate to their content,while bringing more functionalityto the forefront of the UI.

- Then found out how to take advantageof the latest iOS camera capture features.

- This app has one more trick up its sleeve.

I can tap around and point a spotlightat different objects in the scene.

- We also showed off powerful toolsto create cool new layouts and views for apps with SwiftUI.

- SwiftUI provides a rich set of building blocksthat you use to compose your app's interface.

- Tomorrow's reports look something like this.

♪- Go get 'em, tiger.

- That's all for now.

Await further instructions.

♪

## Code Samples

