# Wwdc2022 10062

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Meet TransferableMeet Transferable: a model-layer protocol that allows for effortless support for sharing, drag and drop, copy/paste, and other features in your app.

We'll explore how you can use the API for common use cases, and take advantage of advanced features to customize the behavior. We'll also share how you can optimize for memory efficiency when dealing with large amounts of data. Whether you're extending your models to share with other applications as strings or images or creating custom declared data types, Transferable can help you facilitate a great experience in your app.ResourcesShareLinkHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC22Build a productivity app for Apple WatchEnhance collaboration experiences with MessagesIntegrate your custom collaboration app with MessagesWhat's new in SwiftUITech TalksUniform Type Identifiers — a reintroduction

Meet Transferable: a model-layer protocol that allows for effortless support for sharing, drag and drop, copy/paste, and other features in your app.

We'll explore how you can use the API for common use cases, and take advantage of advanced features to customize the behavior. We'll also share how you can optimize for memory efficiency when dealing with large amounts of data. Whether you're extending your models to share with other applications as strings or images or creating custom declared data types, Transferable can help you facilitate a great experience in your app.

ShareLink

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Build a productivity app for Apple Watch

Enhance collaboration experiences with Messages

Integrate your custom collaboration app with Messages

What's new in SwiftUI

Uniform Type Identifiers — a reintroduction

Search this video…♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hop music ♪♪Hello and welcome to the session "Meet Transferable."My name is Julia. I am a SwiftUI engineer,and I am excited to introduce Transferable,a declarative way to support drag and drop,copy/paste, and other functionality in your app.Apart from SwiftUI and developing applications for Mac,I'm also interested in the story of womenin computer science.I think it's important that we know our heroes.So I decided to create a catalog applicationwhere I can view, add, and edit a list of the female inventors',engineers', and scientists' profiles.I want this application to seamlessly support drag and dropof the scientists' portraits to and from the app,being able to use the clipboard contentto paste interesting facts.And for the first time,my app can support sharing on watchOS!My potential users say that they would loveto be able to share a personality profilefrom their watch.Also, via SwiftUI, sharing is now available on iOS and Mac,which also got this brand-new design for ShareSheet this year.Under the hood, enabling all these featuresrequire the models that we already haveto support being sent over to a receiver inside our appor even in other applications.The profile structure contains all the informationthat we have about a single personality.All the profiles packed in an archivecan be shared among friends.We store fun facts about the personality in stringsand even can attach videos.And there's a great new easy way to make all these model typesto be shared.Meet Transferable!It is a Swift-first declarative way to describe how your modelscan be serialized and deserializedfor sharing and data transfer.Today, we are going to be talking aboutwhat Transferable isand what is going on behind the scenes when we use it;how to conform custom types; and at the end,I'll share some advanced tips and tricksthat can help to customize Transferableto do exactly what you need.Let's start!Say there are two applications running,and the user wants to pass some information from one appto another via copy/paste, ShareSheet, just drag,or use some other app feature.When you send something between two different apps,there's all this binary data that goes across.An important part of sending this datais determining what it corresponds to.It could be text, a video,my favorite female engineer profile, or whole archive.And there's the UTType that describes what the data is for.Let's take a closer look at how apps generate this binary data.All the types that can be shared with other apps,or even within a single application,have to provide two pieces of information:ways to convert them to and from binary data,and the content type that corresponds to the structureof the binary data and tells the receiver what they actually got.The content type --otherwise known as uniform type identifiers --is an Apple-specific technology that describes identifiersfor different binary structures as well as abstract concepts.The identifiers form a tree,and we can also define custom identifiers.For example, one for the binary structure used by our profiles.In order to declare a custom identifier,first, add its declaration to the Info.plist file.It is also a good idea to add a file extension.If the data is saved on disk,the system will know that your app can open that file.Secondly, declare it in code.To learn more about content types,I invite you to watch a video:"Uniform Type Identifiers -- A reintroduction."Personally, I love it, and it gives a clear ideawhat are uniform type identifiers and how to use them.Good news is that many standard typesalready conform to Transferable;for example, string, data, URL, attributed string, image.You need only a couple of lines of code to paste fun factsto a profile with the new SwiftUI paste button interface,support dragging images from a view,or receiving a dropped image from Finder or other apps.Using the br and-new ShareLink,we can now implement sharing experience from the watch.We covered the basics, and now you have an ideahow to use Transferable and what it is.Let's see how to add Transferable conformanceto the models in our application.As I mentioned earlier, there are four model types in our appthat are going to be shared.One of them -- string -- already conforms to Transferable;we don't need to do anything more.But what about the single profile, ProfilesArchive,and the video that I want to share as well?To conform a type to Transferable,there's only one property to implement:TransferRepresentation.It describes how the model is going to get transferred.There are three important representations to be aware of:CodableRepresentation,DataRepresentation,and FileRepresentation.We'll talk about each of them.But first, meet our central model, Profile structure.It has an id, a name, a bio, maybe some fun facts,a portrait, and a video.It already conforms to Codable.Because of that, we can include CodableRepresentationin our Transferable conformance.Codable representation uses an encoderto convert the profile into binary data,and a decoder to convert it back.By default, it uses JSON, but you can also provideyour own encoder/decoder pair.To learn more about the Codable protocoland how encoders and decoders work,I invite you to watch a WWDC session where this protocolwas first introduced: "Data you can trust."Back to our profile.The only thing Codable requiresis knowing the desired content type.Since this is going to be a custom format,we will use a custom declared uniform type identifier.After adding the profile content type, we're good to go.Profile now conforms to Transferable!Now, let's take look at another case: ProfilesArchive.It already supports converting to CSV data.I can export the list of the women profiles in CSV filesand then share with friends or import it on another computer.The archive can be converted to and from data,and it means that we can use the DataRepresentation.If we peek inside, we'll seethat DataRepresentation uses the conversion functionsto directly create binary representationand to reconstruct the value for the receiver.This is how easy it is to conform to Transferableusing the DataRepresentation.All it takes is calling the two functions that we already have:the initializer and the converter to CSV.If a personality profile has a video attached,I want to be able to drag or share it as well.But videos can be large;I don't want to load it into memory.This is where FileRepresentation comes in.And again, if we lift the curtain,we'll see that FileRepresentationpasses the provided URL to the receiverand uses it to reconstruct the Transferable item for them.FileRepresentation allows us to share itemsbacked by a binary representation written to disk:file.Let's summarize.If you want to pick just a single representationfor a simple use case,first check if the model has the Codable conformanceand doesn't have any specific binary format requirements.Use CodableRepresentation if it is the case.If not, check if it is stored in memory or on disk.DataRepresentation works best for the former,and FileRepresetnation for the latter.Transferable is meant to cover not only simple use cases,but also complex ones.And most of the time, with just a few lines of code.See it for yourself!Previously, we have added Transferable conformanceto the profile, but let's go further.When the profile is copied to the pasteboardand pasted into any text field,I want to paste the profile's name.This means we need to add another representation.ProxyRepresentation allows other Transferable typesto represent our model.One line, and Profile can be pasted as text.Notice that I added the ProxyRepresentationafter Codable; the order is important.The receiver will use the first representationwith the content type they support.If the receiver is aware of our custom content type Profile,they should use it.If not, but they support text,let them use the ProxyRepresentation instead.Now, Profile supports both encoder/decoder conversionsand a conversion to text.The ProxyRepresentation in this casedescribes only exporting to text,but not reconstructing the profile from it.Any representation can describe both conversions, or just one.Now, when we know about ProxyRepresentations,do we really need the FileRepresentationfor the video?We could have proxy with a URL.The difference is subtle.FileRepresentation is intended to work with the URLswritten to disk,and ensure receivers' access to this file or its copyby granting a temporary sandbox extension.ProxyRepresentation treats URLs the same wayas any other Transferable items, like strings.It doesn't have any of these additional capabilitiesthat we need for files.It means that we can have both.The first one, FileRepresentation,allows the receiver to access the movie filewith its contents.The second one will work when I paste the copied videoin a text field.So the URL is treated very differentlyby file and proxy representations.In the first case, the actual payload is the asset on disk,and in the second, the payload is the URL structure itselfthat can point to a remote website.Another model that I'd like to upgrade is the ProfilesArchive.There are cases when it doesn't support converting to CSV,and I'd like to reflect that in code.Let's see.We add a Boolean property that tells us if we can export to CSVand conversion functions to and from data.To express this idea in code, we can use .exportingCondition.If given archive doesn't support CSV,it won't be exported in this format.With this API, you can even buildcustom TransferRepresentation,just like custom Views in SwiftUI.The only requirement is to provide the body propertywhere you can have other representationsconfigured the way you need.It is useful if you want to reusea combination of representations,or you have some private data representationthat you don't want to expose publicly.Transferable helped me to quickly build this applicationwith all the functionality that I wanted to have.I hope it is going to help you building feature-rich appsin less time than ever before.Thank you for joining me for this sessionand keep building amazing apps!♪

♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hop music ♪♪Hello and welcome to the session "Meet Transferable."My name is Julia. I am a SwiftUI engineer,and I am excited to introduce Transferable,a declarative way to support drag and drop,copy/paste, and other functionality in your app.

Apart from SwiftUI and developing applications for Mac,I'm also interested in the story of womenin computer science.

I think it's important that we know our heroes.

So I decided to create a catalog applicationwhere I can view, add, and edit a list of the female inventors',engineers', and scientists' profiles.

I want this application to seamlessly support drag and dropof the scientists' portraits to and from the app,being able to use the clipboard contentto paste interesting facts.

And for the first time,my app can support sharing on watchOS!My potential users say that they would loveto be able to share a personality profilefrom their watch.

Also, via SwiftUI, sharing is now available on iOS and Mac,which also got this brand-new design for ShareSheet this year.

Under the hood, enabling all these featuresrequire the models that we already haveto support being sent over to a receiver inside our appor even in other applications.

The profile structure contains all the informationthat we have about a single personality.

All the profiles packed in an archivecan be shared among friends.

We store fun facts about the personality in stringsand even can attach videos.

And there's a great new easy way to make all these model typesto be shared.

Meet Transferable!It is a Swift-first declarative way to describe how your modelscan be serialized and deserializedfor sharing and data transfer.

Today, we are going to be talking aboutwhat Transferable isand what is going on behind the scenes when we use it;how to conform custom types; and at the end,I'll share some advanced tips and tricksthat can help to customize Transferableto do exactly what you need.

Let's start!Say there are two applications running,and the user wants to pass some information from one appto another via copy/paste, ShareSheet, just drag,or use some other app feature.

When you send something between two different apps,there's all this binary data that goes across.

An important part of sending this datais determining what it corresponds to.

It could be text, a video,my favorite female engineer profile, or whole archive.

And there's the UTType that describes what the data is for.

Let's take a closer look at how apps generate this binary data.

All the types that can be shared with other apps,or even within a single application,have to provide two pieces of information:ways to convert them to and from binary data,and the content type that corresponds to the structureof the binary data and tells the receiver what they actually got.

The content type --otherwise known as uniform type identifiers --is an Apple-specific technology that describes identifiersfor different binary structures as well as abstract concepts.

The identifiers form a tree,and we can also define custom identifiers.

For example, one for the binary structure used by our profiles.

In order to declare a custom identifier,first, add its declaration to the Info.plist file.

It is also a good idea to add a file extension.

If the data is saved on disk,the system will know that your app can open that file.

Secondly, declare it in code.

To learn more about content types,I invite you to watch a video:"Uniform Type Identifiers -- A reintroduction."Personally, I love it, and it gives a clear ideawhat are uniform type identifiers and how to use them.

Good news is that many standard typesalready conform to Transferable;for example, string, data, URL, attributed string, image.

You need only a couple of lines of code to paste fun factsto a profile with the new SwiftUI paste button interface,support dragging images from a view,or receiving a dropped image from Finder or other apps.

Using the br and-new ShareLink,we can now implement sharing experience from the watch.

We covered the basics, and now you have an ideahow to use Transferable and what it is.

Let's see how to add Transferable conformanceto the models in our application.

As I mentioned earlier, there are four model types in our appthat are going to be shared.

One of them -- string -- already conforms to Transferable;we don't need to do anything more.

But what about the single profile, ProfilesArchive,and the video that I want to share as well?To conform a type to Transferable,there's only one property to implement:TransferRepresentation.

It describes how the model is going to get transferred.

There are three important representations to be aware of:CodableRepresentation,DataRepresentation,and FileRepresentation.

We'll talk about each of them.

But first, meet our central model, Profile structure.

It has an id, a name, a bio, maybe some fun facts,a portrait, and a video.

It already conforms to Codable.

Because of that, we can include CodableRepresentationin our Transferable conformance.

Codable representation uses an encoderto convert the profile into binary data,and a decoder to convert it back.

By default, it uses JSON, but you can also provideyour own encoder/decoder pair.

To learn more about the Codable protocoland how encoders and decoders work,I invite you to watch a WWDC session where this protocolwas first introduced: "Data you can trust."Back to our profile.

The only thing Codable requiresis knowing the desired content type.

Since this is going to be a custom format,we will use a custom declared uniform type identifier.

After adding the profile content type, we're good to go.

Profile now conforms to Transferable!Now, let's take look at another case: ProfilesArchive.

It already supports converting to CSV data.

I can export the list of the women profiles in CSV filesand then share with friends or import it on another computer.

The archive can be converted to and from data,and it means that we can use the DataRepresentation.

If we peek inside, we'll seethat DataRepresentation uses the conversion functionsto directly create binary representationand to reconstruct the value for the receiver.

This is how easy it is to conform to Transferableusing the DataRepresentation.

All it takes is calling the two functions that we already have:the initializer and the converter to CSV.

If a personality profile has a video attached,I want to be able to drag or share it as well.

But videos can be large;I don't want to load it into memory.

This is where FileRepresentation comes in.

And again, if we lift the curtain,we'll see that FileRepresentationpasses the provided URL to the receiverand uses it to reconstruct the Transferable item for them.

FileRepresentation allows us to share itemsbacked by a binary representation written to disk:file.

Let's summarize.

If you want to pick just a single representationfor a simple use case,first check if the model has the Codable conformanceand doesn't have any specific binary format requirements.

Use CodableRepresentation if it is the case.

If not, check if it is stored in memory or on disk.

DataRepresentation works best for the former,and FileRepresetnation for the latter.

Transferable is meant to cover not only simple use cases,but also complex ones.

And most of the time, with just a few lines of code.

See it for yourself!Previously, we have added Transferable conformanceto the profile, but let's go further.

When the profile is copied to the pasteboardand pasted into any text field,I want to paste the profile's name.

This means we need to add another representation.

ProxyRepresentation allows other Transferable typesto represent our model.

One line, and Profile can be pasted as text.

Notice that I added the ProxyRepresentationafter Codable; the order is important.

The receiver will use the first representationwith the content type they support.

If the receiver is aware of our custom content type Profile,they should use it.

If not, but they support text,let them use the ProxyRepresentation instead.

Now, Profile supports both encoder/decoder conversionsand a conversion to text.

The ProxyRepresentation in this casedescribes only exporting to text,but not reconstructing the profile from it.

Any representation can describe both conversions, or just one.

Now, when we know about ProxyRepresentations,do we really need the FileRepresentationfor the video?We could have proxy with a URL.

The difference is subtle.

FileRepresentation is intended to work with the URLswritten to disk,and ensure receivers' access to this file or its copyby granting a temporary sandbox extension.

ProxyRepresentation treats URLs the same wayas any other Transferable items, like strings.

It doesn't have any of these additional capabilitiesthat we need for files.

It means that we can have both.

The first one, FileRepresentation,allows the receiver to access the movie filewith its contents.

The second one will work when I paste the copied videoin a text field.

So the URL is treated very differentlyby file and proxy representations.

In the first case, the actual payload is the asset on disk,and in the second, the payload is the URL structure itselfthat can point to a remote website.

Another model that I'd like to upgrade is the ProfilesArchive.

There are cases when it doesn't support converting to CSV,and I'd like to reflect that in code.

Let's see.

We add a Boolean property that tells us if we can export to CSVand conversion functions to and from data.

To express this idea in code, we can use .exportingCondition.

If given archive doesn't support CSV,it won't be exported in this format.

With this API, you can even buildcustom TransferRepresentation,just like custom Views in SwiftUI.

The only requirement is to provide the body propertywhere you can have other representationsconfigured the way you need.

It is useful if you want to reusea combination of representations,or you have some private data representationthat you don't want to expose publicly.

Transferable helped me to quickly build this applicationwith all the functionality that I wanted to have.

I hope it is going to help you building feature-rich appsin less time than ever before.

Thank you for joining me for this sessionand keep building amazing apps!♪

4:36 -Declaring a custom content type

5:10 -PasteButton interface

5:19 -Drag and Drop

5:27 -Sharing

6:34 -Profile structure

7:31 -CodableRepresentation

8:30 -DataRepresentation

9:14 -FileRepresentation

10:05 -ProxyRepresentation

11:34 -Proxy and file representations

12:57 -Exporting condition

## Code Samples

```swift
import
 UniformTypeIdentifiers


// also declare the content type in the Info.plist


extension
 
UTType
 
{
    
static
 
var
 profile: 
UTType
 
=
 
UTType
(exportedAs: 
"com.example.profile"
)
}
```

```swift
import
 SwiftUI


struct
 
Profile
 {
    
private
 
var
 funFacts: [
String
] 
=
 []
    
mutating
 
func
 
addFunFacts
(
_
 
newFunFacts
: [
String
]) {
        funFacts.append(newFunFacts)
    }
}


struct
 
PasteButtonView
: 
View
 {
    
@State
 
var
 profile 
=
 
Profile
()
    
var
 body: 
some
 
View
 {
        
PasteButton
(payloadType: 
String
.
self
) { funFacts 
in

            profile.addFunFacts(funFacts)
        }
    }
}
```

```swift
import
 SwiftUI


struct
 
PortraitView
: 
View
 {
    
@State
 
var
 portrait: 
Image

    
var
 body: 
some
 
View
 {
        portrait
            .cornerRadius(
8
)
            .draggable(portrait)
            .dropDestination(payloadType: 
Image
.
self
) { (images: [
Image
], 
_
) 
in

                
if
 
let
 image 
=
 images.first {
                    portrait 
=
 image
                    
return
 
true

                }
                
return
 
false

            }
    }
}
```

```swift
import
 SwiftUI


struct
 
Profile
 
{
    
var
 name: 
String

}


struct
 
ProfileView
: 
View
 
{
    
@State
 
private
 
var
 portrait: 
Image

    
var
 model: 
Profile


    
var
 body: 
some
 
View
 {
        
VStack
 {
            portrait
            
Text
(model.name)
        }
        .toolbar {
            
ShareLink
(item: portrait, preview: 
SharePreview
(model.name))
        }
    }
}
```

```swift
import
 Foundation


struct
 
Profile
: 
Codable
 
{
    
var
 id: 
UUID

    
var
 name: 
String

    
var
 bio: 
String

    
var
 funFacts: [
String
]
    
var
 video: 
URL
?
    
var
 portrait: 
URL
?
}
```

```swift
import
 CoreTransferable

import
 UniformTypeIdentifiers


struct
 
Profile
: 
Codable
 {
    
var
 id: 
UUID

    
var
 name: 
String

    
var
 bio: 
String

    
var
 funFacts: [
String
]
    
var
 video: 
URL
?
    
var
 portrait: 
URL
?
}


extension
 
Profile
: 
Codable
, 
Transferable
 {
    
static
 
var
 transferRepresentation: 
some
 
TransferRepresentation
 {
        
CodableRepresentation
(contentType: .profile)
    }
}


// also declare the content type in the Info.plist


extension
 
UTType
 {
    
static
 
var
 profile: 
UTType
 
=
 
UTType
(exportedAs: 
"com.example.profile"
)
}
```

```swift
import
 CoreTransferable

import
 UniformTypeIdentifiers


struct
 
ProfilesArchive
 {
    
init
(
csvData
: 
Data
) 
throws
 { }
    
func
 
convertToCSV
() 
throws
 -> 
Data
 { 
Data
() }
}


extension
 
ProfilesArchive
: 
Transferable
 {
    
static
 
var
 transferRepresentation: 
some
 
TransferRepresentation
 {
        
DataRepresentation
(contentType: .commaSeparatedText) { archive 
in

            
try
 archive.convertToCSV()
        } importing: { data 
in

            
try
 
ProfilesArchive
(csvData: data)
        }
    }
}
```

```swift
import
 CoreTransferable


struct
 
Video
: 
Transferable
 {
    
let
 file: 
URL

    
static
 
var
 transferRepresentation: 
some
 
TransferRepresentation
 {
        
FileRepresentation
(contentType: .mpeg4Movie) { 
            
SentTransferredFile
(
$0
.file)
        } importing: { received 
in

            
let
 destination 
=
 
try
 
Self
.copyVideoFile(source: received.file)
            
return
 
Self
.
init
(file: destination)
        }
    }
  
    
static
 
func
 
copyVideoFile
(
source
: 
URL
) 
throws
 -> 
URL
 {
        
let
 moviesDirectory 
=
 
try
 
FileManager
.default.url(
            for: .moviesDirectory, in: .userDomainMask,
            appropriateFor: 
nil
, create: 
true

        )
        
var
 destination 
=
 moviesDirectory.appendingPathComponent(
            source.lastPathComponent, isDirectory: 
false
)
        
if
 
FileManager
.default.fileExists(atPath: destination.path) {
            
let
 pathExtension 
=
 destination.pathExtension
            
var
 fileName 
=
 destination.deletingPathExtension().lastPathComponent
            fileName 
+=
 
"_
\(UUID().uuidString)
"

            destination 
=
 destination
                .deletingLastPathComponent()
                .appendingPathComponent(fileName)
                .appendingPathExtension(pathExtension)
        }
        
try
 
FileManager
.default.copyItem(at: source, to: destination)
        
return
 destination
    }
}
```

```swift
import
 CoreTransferable

import
 UniformTypeIdentifiers


struct
 
Profile
: 
Codable
 {
    
var
 id: 
UUID

    
var
 name: 
String

    
var
 bio: 
String

    
var
 funFacts: [
String
]
    
var
 video: 
URL
?
    
var
 portrait: 
URL
?
}


extension
 
Profile
: 
Transferable
 {
    
static
 
var
 transferRepresentation: 
some
 
TransferRepresentation
 {
        
CodableRepresentation
(contentType: .profile)
        
ProxyRepresentation
(exporting: \.name)
    }
}


// also declare the content type in the Info.plist


extension
 
UTType
 {
    
static
 
var
 profile: 
UTType
 
=
 
UTType
(exportedAs: 
"com.example.profile"
)
}
```

```swift
import
 CoreTransferable


struct
 
Video
: 
Transferable
 {
    
let
 file: 
URL

    
static
 
var
 transferRepresentation: 
some
 
TransferRepresentation
 {
        
FileRepresentation
(contentType: .mpeg4Movie) { 
SentTransferredFile
(
$0
.file) }
           importing: { received 
in

               
let
 copy 
=
 
try
 
Self
.copyVideoFile(source: received.file)
               
return
 
Self
.
init
(file: copy) }
        
ProxyRepresentation
(exporting: \.file)
  }

    
static
 
func
 
copyVideoFile
(
source
: 
URL
) 
throws
 -> 
URL
 {
        
let
 moviesDirectory 
=
 
try
 
FileManager
.default.url(
            for: .moviesDirectory, in: .userDomainMask,
            appropriateFor: 
nil
, create: 
true

        )
        
var
 destination 
=
 moviesDirectory.appendingPathComponent(
            source.lastPathComponent, isDirectory: 
false
)
        
if
 
FileManager
.default.fileExists(atPath: destination.path) {
            
let
 pathExtension 
=
 destination.pathExtension
            
var
 fileName 
=
 destination.deletingPathExtension().lastPathComponent
            fileName 
+=
 
"_
\(UUID().uuidString)
"

            destination 
=
 destination
                .deletingLastPathComponent()
                .appendingPathComponent(fileName)
                .appendingPathExtension(pathExtension)
        }
        
try
 
FileManager
.default.copyItem(at: source, to: destination)
        
return
 destination
    }
}
```

```swift
import
 CoreTransferable

import
 UniformTypeIdentifiers


struct
 
ProfilesArchive
 
{
    
var
 supportsCSV: 
Bool
 { 
true
 }
    
init
(
csvData
: 
Data
)
 
throws
 {  }
    
func
 
convertToCSV
()
 
throws
 -> 
Data
 { 
Data
() }
}


extension
 
ProfilesArchive
: 
Transferable
 
{
    
static
 
var
 transferRepresentation: 
some
 
TransferRepresentation
 {
        
DataRepresentation
(contentType: .commaSeparatedText) { archive 
in

            
try
 archive.convertToCSV()
        } importing: { data 
in

            
try
 
Self
(csvData: data)
        }
        .exportingCondition { 
$0
.supportsCSV }
    }
}
```

