# Wwdc2022 10142

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Efficiency awaits: Background tasks in SwiftUIBackground Tasks help apps respond to system events and keep time-sensitive data up to date. Learn how you can use the SwiftUI Background Tasks API to handle tasks succinctly. We'll show you how to use Swift Concurrency to handle network responses, background refresh, and more — all while preserving performance and power.ResourcesBackgroundTaskbackgroundTask(_:action:)HD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC22WWDC22 Day 4 recapWWDC21Discover concurrency in SwiftUIMeet async/await in Swift

Background Tasks help apps respond to system events and keep time-sensitive data up to date. Learn how you can use the SwiftUI Background Tasks API to handle tasks succinctly. We'll show you how to use Swift Concurrency to handle network responses, background refresh, and more — all while preserving performance and power.

BackgroundTask

backgroundTask(_:action:)

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

WWDC22 Day 4 recap

Discover concurrency in SwiftUI

Meet async/await in Swift

Search this video…♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hop music ♪♪Welcome to "Efficiency awaits: Background Tasks in SwiftUI."I'm John Gallagher, an engineer on the watchOS Frameworks team.In this talk, we'll learn about a new SwiftUI APIfor handling background tasks using Swift Concurrencyand in a consistent way across all of Apple's platforms.We'll begin by describing a sample app called Stormy,an app for taking photos of the sky on stormy dayswhich makes use of background tasks.Then, we'll dive into how the app uses background tasksand how background tasks work under the hood.Next, we'll learn how to handle those background tasksusing a new API in SwiftUI.And finally, we'll review how the API uses Swift Concurrencyto make handling background tasks easier than ever.The new API is shared across watchOS, iOS, tvOS,Mac Catalyst, and Widgets,including iOS apps running on the Mac,which means the concepts and patterns you learnhandling background tasks for one platformcan apply to work you do on others.Utilizing Swift Concurrency, the new API reduces the needfor deeply nested completion handlers and callbacksas well as much of the mutable statewhich was frequently a side effect.Swift Concurrency's native task cancellationhelps applications gracefully complete tasks in a timely wayto avoid being quit in the background by the system.For people who like to keep their head in the clouds,we're going to build an app called Stormythat will remind users to take photos of the skywhen it's stormy outside.The app will show a notification at noon on stormy daysrequesting that the user takes a picture of the sky.When the user taps the notification,they'll take a photo of the sky to upload to their profilefor future admiration.We're going to upload this photo in the background.The app will send another notificationwhen the upload has finished.Let's dive in to how background tasks can let us do this.In this diagram, we'll examine at a high levelhow the notification will only get senton stormy days utilizing background tasks.We'll represent foreground application runtimewith the bar on the left,background application runtime with the bar in the middle,and the system is represented on the right.When our app is first launched to the foreground by the user,we can take our first opportunityto schedule a background app refresh task for noon.Then, when the user leaves our app and the app is suspended,the system will know to wake our application againin the background at the time we scheduled.We scheduled our task for noon,so that's when system will wake the app in the backgroundand send a background app refresh task.With this background runtime,we need to figure out whether it is stormy outside,and if it is, send a notification to the user.To start, we'll make a network request to a weather serviceto check the current weather.With the URLSession scheduled for background,the application can suspendand wait for the network request to complete.When the background network requestfor weather data completes,our application will be given background runtime againwith a new URLSession background task.With the results of the weather data request in hand,our application knows whether it is stormy outsideand can choose whether to send a notificationprompting the user to take a photo of the sky.Now that our work for that URLSession task is done,the system can once again suspend the application.Let's dive into the details of a single background taskand see how it works.To do that, we're going to take a closer look at the lifecycleof a single app refresh background task.Let's zoom in here a little bit.First, the system will wake our applicationand send it an app refresh background task.Then, still in the background, we make a network requestto check whether it is stormy outside.Ideally, our network request completeswithin the allotted background runtime our application hasfor app refresh.When we get the network response,we'd like to post the notification immediately.With the notification posted,we've completed everything we needed to do during app refreshand the system can suspend the application again.But what about when our network request for weather datadoesn't complete in time?If an app is running low on background runtimefor the current task,the system signals the app that the time is running low,giving us a chance to handle this situation gracefully.If applications do not signal that they've completedtheir background work before runtime expires,the application may be quit by the system and throttledfor future background task requests.In this case, we should make sure that our network requestis a background network request,which will allow us to complete our app refresh task immediatelyand get woken againfor additional background runtimewhen the network request completes.With our background URLSession scheduled,the system can suspend the application again.Now, let's dive into how the BackgroundTask API in SwiftUIcan help us build Stormy.To begin, we'll need a basic application.Then, we'll write a function to schedule background app refreshfor noon tomorrow.First, we create a date representing noon tomorrow.Then, we create a background app refresh requestwith an earliest begin date of noon tomorrowand submit it to the scheduler.This is what tells the system to wake our applicationtomorrow at noon.We'll want to call this functionwhen the user first opens the applicationand requests daily storm notifications at noon.We can register a handler correspondingto the background task we scheduledby using the new background task scene modifier.When the app receives a background task,any blocks registered with this modifierthat match the background task received are run.In this case, we used the appRefresh task typewhich can be scheduled in advanceto provide our application with a limited amount of runtimein the background at a desired date.Using the same identifier for the requestand the handler in the background task modifierlets the system identify which handler to callwhen the corresponding task is received by your application.In order for us to be sure thatwe are scheduled again for tomorrow,we'll start our background task by callingthe scheduleAppRefresh function we just wroteto schedule background runtime again for tomorrow at noon.Now that our background runtime at noon is recurring,we make our network requestto check whether it is stormy outsideand wait for the result using the await Swift keyword.Then, if our network request has returnedand it is indeed stormy outside,we await sending the notification to the userprompting them to upload a photo of the sky.When the body of our closure returns,the underlying background taskassigned to our application by the systemis implicitly marked as complete,and the system can suspend our application again.Here, using Swift Concurrency has let do potentiallylong-running operations in our background taskwithout the need for an explicit callbackfor when the work has completed.Many APIs across Apple Platforms,such as adding a notification,already support Swift Concurrencyfor asynchronous operations.Here, the notifyForPhoto async functioncan be implemented in a straightforward wayusing the asynchronous addNotification methodfound on UserNotificationCenter.Let's dive in to how Swift Concurrency and async/awaitdo some heavy lifting for usand make it easier than ever to handle background tasks.Let's write the asynchronous isStormy functionthat we've been referencing.This async function is going to need to make a network requestchecking the weather outside.To start, we'll get the shared URLSessionand instantiate a request for weather data.URLSession has adopted Swift Concurrencyand has a method for downloading data from the networkthat can be awaited from async contexts.With the network response in hand,we can read the weather data and return our result.But what about when our applicationcan't complete the network requestbefore our runtime expires?Recall that in this case, we wanted to make sure thatwe had set up our URLSession as a background sessionand to ensure that it will send launch events to our applicationusing a URLSession background task.Back to our code.We had used the shared URLSession.Instead, we should create a URLSessionfrom a background configuration withthe sessionSendsLaunchEvents property set to true.This tells the system that some network requests should runeven when the app is suspended and to then wake the appfor a URLSession background task when that request completes.Note that this is especially important on watchOSas all network requests made by apps running in the backgroundon watchOS must be requested through background URLSessions.We're not quite done though.Recall that when our background task runtime is expiring,the system will cancel the async taskthat is running the closure providedto the background task modifier.This means that the network request made herewill also be cancelled when our background runtime is expiring.To respond to and handle that cancellation,we can use the withTaskCancellationHandlerfunction built in to Swift Concurrency.Instead of awaiting the result directly,we place our download into a withTaskCancellationHandler calland await this as well.The first block passed to withTaskCancellationHandleris the async procedure we'd like to run and await.The second onCancel trailing closure is code that will runwhen the task is cancelled.Here, when the immediate network request is cancelleddue to our runtime expiring,we promote the network request to a background download task,on which we can call resume,triggering the background download that will persisteven when our app is suspended.This code is not making the underlying network request twiceas we're using the same URLSession to back both,and URLSession will deduplicate any in-process requestsunder the hood.Finally, we need to ensure that our application is set upto handle a launch from a background URLSession.We can use the background task modifier again,but this time with the URLSession task type.By using the same identifierfor the background URLSession configuration we made earlier,we can ensure this block is only calledwhen that specific URLSession produces a background task.We've taken a dive into the new unified SwiftUI APIfor handling background tasksand discovered how Swift Concurrency makes it easierthan ever for us to manage task completion and expiration.For more information about Swift Concurrency,check out the "Meet Async/await in Swift" talkfrom WWDC 2021.And to learn more about concurrency in SwiftUI,we recommend "Discover Concurrency in SwiftUI,"also from WWDC 2021.Thanks for watching"Efficiency awaits: Background Tasks in SwiftUI."♪

♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hop music ♪♪Welcome to "Efficiency awaits: Background Tasks in SwiftUI."I'm John Gallagher, an engineer on the watchOS Frameworks team.

In this talk, we'll learn about a new SwiftUI APIfor handling background tasks using Swift Concurrencyand in a consistent way across all of Apple's platforms.

We'll begin by describing a sample app called Stormy,an app for taking photos of the sky on stormy dayswhich makes use of background tasks.

Then, we'll dive into how the app uses background tasksand how background tasks work under the hood.

Next, we'll learn how to handle those background tasksusing a new API in SwiftUI.

And finally, we'll review how the API uses Swift Concurrencyto make handling background tasks easier than ever.

The new API is shared across watchOS, iOS, tvOS,Mac Catalyst, and Widgets,including iOS apps running on the Mac,which means the concepts and patterns you learnhandling background tasks for one platformcan apply to work you do on others.

Utilizing Swift Concurrency, the new API reduces the needfor deeply nested completion handlers and callbacksas well as much of the mutable statewhich was frequently a side effect.

Swift Concurrency's native task cancellationhelps applications gracefully complete tasks in a timely wayto avoid being quit in the background by the system.

For people who like to keep their head in the clouds,we're going to build an app called Stormythat will remind users to take photos of the skywhen it's stormy outside.

The app will show a notification at noon on stormy daysrequesting that the user takes a picture of the sky.

When the user taps the notification,they'll take a photo of the sky to upload to their profilefor future admiration.

We're going to upload this photo in the background.

The app will send another notificationwhen the upload has finished.

Let's dive in to how background tasks can let us do this.

In this diagram, we'll examine at a high levelhow the notification will only get senton stormy days utilizing background tasks.

We'll represent foreground application runtimewith the bar on the left,background application runtime with the bar in the middle,and the system is represented on the right.

When our app is first launched to the foreground by the user,we can take our first opportunityto schedule a background app refresh task for noon.

Then, when the user leaves our app and the app is suspended,the system will know to wake our application againin the background at the time we scheduled.

We scheduled our task for noon,so that's when system will wake the app in the backgroundand send a background app refresh task.

With this background runtime,we need to figure out whether it is stormy outside,and if it is, send a notification to the user.

To start, we'll make a network request to a weather serviceto check the current weather.

With the URLSession scheduled for background,the application can suspendand wait for the network request to complete.

When the background network requestfor weather data completes,our application will be given background runtime againwith a new URLSession background task.

With the results of the weather data request in hand,our application knows whether it is stormy outsideand can choose whether to send a notificationprompting the user to take a photo of the sky.

Now that our work for that URLSession task is done,the system can once again suspend the application.

Let's dive into the details of a single background taskand see how it works.

To do that, we're going to take a closer look at the lifecycleof a single app refresh background task.

Let's zoom in here a little bit.

First, the system will wake our applicationand send it an app refresh background task.

Then, still in the background, we make a network requestto check whether it is stormy outside.

Ideally, our network request completeswithin the allotted background runtime our application hasfor app refresh.

When we get the network response,we'd like to post the notification immediately.

With the notification posted,we've completed everything we needed to do during app refreshand the system can suspend the application again.

But what about when our network request for weather datadoesn't complete in time?If an app is running low on background runtimefor the current task,the system signals the app that the time is running low,giving us a chance to handle this situation gracefully.

If applications do not signal that they've completedtheir background work before runtime expires,the application may be quit by the system and throttledfor future background task requests.

In this case, we should make sure that our network requestis a background network request,which will allow us to complete our app refresh task immediatelyand get woken againfor additional background runtimewhen the network request completes.

With our background URLSession scheduled,the system can suspend the application again.

Now, let's dive into how the BackgroundTask API in SwiftUIcan help us build Stormy.

To begin, we'll need a basic application.

Then, we'll write a function to schedule background app refreshfor noon tomorrow.

First, we create a date representing noon tomorrow.

Then, we create a background app refresh requestwith an earliest begin date of noon tomorrowand submit it to the scheduler.

This is what tells the system to wake our applicationtomorrow at noon.

We'll want to call this functionwhen the user first opens the applicationand requests daily storm notifications at noon.

We can register a handler correspondingto the background task we scheduledby using the new background task scene modifier.

When the app receives a background task,any blocks registered with this modifierthat match the background task received are run.

In this case, we used the appRefresh task typewhich can be scheduled in advanceto provide our application with a limited amount of runtimein the background at a desired date.

Using the same identifier for the requestand the handler in the background task modifierlets the system identify which handler to callwhen the corresponding task is received by your application.

In order for us to be sure thatwe are scheduled again for tomorrow,we'll start our background task by callingthe scheduleAppRefresh function we just wroteto schedule background runtime again for tomorrow at noon.

Now that our background runtime at noon is recurring,we make our network requestto check whether it is stormy outsideand wait for the result using the await Swift keyword.

Then, if our network request has returnedand it is indeed stormy outside,we await sending the notification to the userprompting them to upload a photo of the sky.

When the body of our closure returns,the underlying background taskassigned to our application by the systemis implicitly marked as complete,and the system can suspend our application again.

Here, using Swift Concurrency has let do potentiallylong-running operations in our background taskwithout the need for an explicit callbackfor when the work has completed.

Many APIs across Apple Platforms,such as adding a notification,already support Swift Concurrencyfor asynchronous operations.

Here, the notifyForPhoto async functioncan be implemented in a straightforward wayusing the asynchronous addNotification methodfound on UserNotificationCenter.

Let's dive in to how Swift Concurrency and async/awaitdo some heavy lifting for usand make it easier than ever to handle background tasks.

Let's write the asynchronous isStormy functionthat we've been referencing.

This async function is going to need to make a network requestchecking the weather outside.

To start, we'll get the shared URLSessionand instantiate a request for weather data.

URLSession has adopted Swift Concurrencyand has a method for downloading data from the networkthat can be awaited from async contexts.

With the network response in hand,we can read the weather data and return our result.

But what about when our applicationcan't complete the network requestbefore our runtime expires?Recall that in this case, we wanted to make sure thatwe had set up our URLSession as a background sessionand to ensure that it will send launch events to our applicationusing a URLSession background task.

Back to our code.

We had used the shared URLSession.

Instead, we should create a URLSessionfrom a background configuration withthe sessionSendsLaunchEvents property set to true.

This tells the system that some network requests should runeven when the app is suspended and to then wake the appfor a URLSession background task when that request completes.

Note that this is especially important on watchOSas all network requests made by apps running in the backgroundon watchOS must be requested through background URLSessions.

We're not quite done though.

Recall that when our background task runtime is expiring,the system will cancel the async taskthat is running the closure providedto the background task modifier.

This means that the network request made herewill also be cancelled when our background runtime is expiring.

To respond to and handle that cancellation,we can use the withTaskCancellationHandlerfunction built in to Swift Concurrency.

Instead of awaiting the result directly,we place our download into a withTaskCancellationHandler calland await this as well.

The first block passed to withTaskCancellationHandleris the async procedure we'd like to run and await.

The second onCancel trailing closure is code that will runwhen the task is cancelled.

Here, when the immediate network request is cancelleddue to our runtime expiring,we promote the network request to a background download task,on which we can call resume,triggering the background download that will persisteven when our app is suspended.

This code is not making the underlying network request twiceas we're using the same URLSession to back both,and URLSession will deduplicate any in-process requestsunder the hood.

Finally, we need to ensure that our application is set upto handle a launch from a background URLSession.

We can use the background task modifier again,but this time with the URLSession task type.

By using the same identifierfor the background URLSession configuration we made earlier,we can ensure this block is only calledwhen that specific URLSession produces a background task.

We've taken a dive into the new unified SwiftUI APIfor handling background tasksand discovered how Swift Concurrency makes it easierthan ever for us to manage task completion and expiration.

For more information about Swift Concurrency,check out the "Meet Async/await in Swift" talkfrom WWDC 2021.

And to learn more about concurrency in SwiftUI,we recommend "Discover Concurrency in SwiftUI,"also from WWDC 2021.

Thanks for watching"Efficiency awaits: Background Tasks in SwiftUI."♪

## Code Samples

