# Wwdc2022 10006

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Meet Apple Maps Server APIsSimplify your app's mapping architecture by implementing the Apple Maps stack across MapKit, MapKit JS, and Apple Maps Server APIs. Learn how these APIs can reduce network calls and increase power efficiency, which can help improve the overall performance of your app. We'll show you how to use geocoding and estimated time of arrival APIs to build functionality for a simple store locator, and explore the API authentication flow.ResourcesApple Developer: MapKit JSApple Maps Server APICreating a Maps identifier and a private keyCreating and using tokens with Maps Server APIMaps for DevelopersMaps Server API test environmentHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC23Meet MapKit for SwiftUITech TalksWhat's new for enterprise developersWWDC22What's new in MapKit

Simplify your app's mapping architecture by implementing the Apple Maps stack across MapKit, MapKit JS, and Apple Maps Server APIs. Learn how these APIs can reduce network calls and increase power efficiency, which can help improve the overall performance of your app. We'll show you how to use geocoding and estimated time of arrival APIs to build functionality for a simple store locator, and explore the API authentication flow.

Apple Developer: MapKit JS

Apple Maps Server API

Creating a Maps identifier and a private key

Creating and using tokens with Maps Server API

Maps for Developers

Maps Server API test environment

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Meet MapKit for SwiftUI

What's new for enterprise developers

What's new in MapKit

Search this video…♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hop music ♪♪Hi, everyone! My name is Ankur Soni.I'm an engineering manager on the Maps Services teamhere at Apple.Today, we're going to look at some exciting new capabilitiescoming to the Maps developer ecosystem.So let's get started.Our Maps app offers various end-user experiencesto Apple customers around the globe.We empower developers to createbeautiful geolocation experiences for their appsand websites through our MapKit and MapKit JS offerings.However, our Apple Maps developer offeringhas always been very client-centric.We have listened carefully to all your great feedback.You wanted a way to augment your own data on MapKitwithout compromising on performance or power.So to round out our ecosystem,we are excited to introduce the Apple Maps Server APIs.We are introducing four new server APIs:Geocoding, Reverse Geocoding, Search,Estimated Time of Arrival -- or ETA.These APIs will help you tackle a variety of use caseswhile integrating Maps into your applications.With Geocoding APIs, you can convert an addressto geographic coordinates latitude and longitude.Similarly, with Reverse Geocoding,you can do the opposite --go from geographic coordinates to an address.With Search API, you can give your users the capabilityto enter a search string to discover placeslike businesses, points of interest, and more.Maybe you want to overlay some of your own dataand present it to the user.With ETA API, you can help your customersget a sense of how far your business is from themor do some computations to find the closest store.The possibilities are endless!We think you'll love server APIs for three important reasons.You can now deliver a seamless experience by leveragingMapKit, MapKit JS, and the new Apple Maps Server APIs.This will simplify your application architecturegiving you a full Apple Maps stack.This will make your life much easier.For sure, it helped me.But hey, I'm biased!The next benefit is the reduction in network calls.Many times, we find ourselves in a situationwhere we are making repetitive and redundant requestsfrom our users' devices like an iPhone, iPad,websites, etcetera.Maybe you are looking up the same address over and over againfrom your app running on different user devices.This causes a lot of network calls and wasted bandwidth.Delegating this common operation to your serverand doing it only once in the back end using server APIswill help your application consume less bandwidth.A nice side effect of this is that now your applicationis power efficient too, since some processing is now delegatedto your server using Apple Maps Server APIs.Now let's take some of these APIs for a spin.Let's say we are building these contact cardsfor your store locator application.Here we see three stores with their addressesand distance from the customer location.In this example, we'll assume that the customerhas provided their location.For now, let's focus on building one of these contact cards.We'll assume that these addresses are on a serverwhich stores and serves the locations of comic bookstores.There are many ways to build this, but for a second,let's assume we don't have these new server APIs.What would a basic architecture look like?How would your client application get this data?In this diagram, our application is making a call to the serverto get the list of store addresses.The back-end server returns a list of store addressesto your client device.Since we don't have the server APIs in this example,now our client application has to perform various actionson the address to build the contact card.To perform a single task,a client may have to make multiple callsto various back-end services.Here you can see that the client app is making a calldirectly to the Apple Maps Server,either by using MapKit or MapKit JS.This chattiness between a client and a back endcan adversely impact the performance and scaleof the application.Over a cellular network with typically high latency,using individual requests in this manner is inefficientand could result in broken connectivityor incomplete requests.While each request may be done in parallel,the application must send, wait, and process datafor each request all on separate connectionsincreasing the chance of failure.Finally, you'll have to merge all the responses on the client.And while all these calls happen,you are showing a spinner to the user.Plus, the client device is using more bandwidthand power for these extra calls.That is not a good user experience.Now, let's look at a model architecturewith access to Apple Maps Server APIs.You can start using your back-end server as a gatewayto reduce chattiness between the client and the services.Just like before, here we request a list of storesto be displayed from your client.Next, we make a request from the server to do geocoding.We then receive responses for each APIfrom the Apple Maps Server.The comic book server combines the responses from each serviceand sends the response to the application.This pattern can reduce the number of requeststhat the application makes to back-end services,and improve application performanceover high-latency networks.In summary, your client makes one call to your serverto get the list of stores.Your server then does the heavy liftingto make appropriate API calls to compose a responsemost suited for your user.So let's go back to our case study example here.We'll use Geocoding and ETA APIto get the distance to the store.We can use the Geocode API to find the latitude and longitudefor the store addresses, which we'll later usefor ETA calculations.In this example, first, we are going to takethe address for the comic book store and URL encode it.Next, we'll use the Geocode APIand pass this URL-encoded address as a query parameter.We'll skip over the authentication details for nowand come back to it in a few slides.In the response, you can see the latitude and longitudefor the address returned.We'll repeat the same process to findthe latitude and longitude for the customer's address.This will be later used for ETA calculations.As you can see, there are more fields in the response.I'll link the detailed documentationin the Resources section below.Now, we can set the origin and destination on the ETA APIwith the data we got from the Geocode API.As I mentioned before, we have the origin latitude, longitudeand the destination latitude, longitude.We can specify up to 10 destinations here if needed.We'll feed that in the ETA APIas origin and as destination query parameterswhich are URL encoded.The response to the API is a list of ETAs,one for each destination provided.In this case, we only have onesince we provided one destination.Here for our example, we are interested in distanceMetersto calculate the distance to the store.With this, we have all the pieces we need:the store address and the distance for the userto reach your store.You can also choose to augment or overlay this datawith your own store information, like store hours.In this way, you can leverage different server APIsto build your applications.For other APIs, please refer to documentationlinked below this talk.One critical piece we haven't talked about is authentication.All the Apple Maps Server APIs are authenticated.If you are using MapKit JS, you are already halfway there.Apple Maps Server APIs use the same mechanism as MapKit JSto authenticate.First, you'll download your private keyfrom your developer account.You'll then use this private keyto generate a Maps auth token in JWT format.There is a detailed doc about how to generate onelinked below.You can then exchange this Maps auth tokenusing the token API to get Maps access token.We'll authenticate the Maps auth token on the back endand send back Maps access token.This is in JWT format and will be usedfor all API interactions.This access token needs to be refreshed every 30 minutesby repeating the highlighted process here.Now that we saw how the authentication flow looks like,here is a simple example of how to use the token APIto fetch the access token.We are using the token API here.We are passing the Maps auth token as a header.You'll get back a Maps access tokenthat can be used to access the API.This will be in JWT format and will have standard fieldslike expiry, issuedAt, etcetera.As a convenience, the expiresInSeconds fieldshows for how long the token is valid for.In this case, it's 30 minutes.Keep in mind Maps auth tokenis not the same as Maps access token.You exchange the Maps auth tokento get a 30-minute long Maps access tokento access the server APIs.Let's take a quick look at how the API interactionwith Maps access token looks like.We'll pass the Maps access token along with server API call.It is added as a header to the API call,just like we saw a few slides ago.The Apple Maps Server will validate the Maps access token.Once the validation is successful,the Apple Maps Server will respond with an API response.Now that I have covered APIs and authentication,let me talk about usage limits.With great power comes great responsibility,so use your quota wisely.There is a daily cap on how many API calls you can make,and it's big!You'll get a quota of 25,000 service calls per day in total.Keep in mind, calling services via MapKit JS and server APIsuse the same quota.If you need more, please reach out to us.So, how do you keep track of all this?You can view your usage stats at the Maps developer dashboard.Anybody using MapKit JS?This will look very familiar to you.The server API usage is categorized as Services,which you can see highlighted here.When the daily quota is exceeded,which means more than 25,000 server API calls,we'll start rejecting new service callsand respond with HTTP status 429,which means too many requests.You should make sure that the app experiencedegrades gracefully in such scenarios.In rare scenarios, when your servicemakes an unusual amount of requests --maybe it's due to some bug in your code or infrastructure --it's possible to get HTTP status 429 as well.When you receive HTTP 429, it is importantnot to simply loop repeatedly in making requests.A better approach is to retry with increasing delaysin between attempts.This approach is known as exponential backoff.So, what did we learn today?We are releasing four new server APIs.These APIs are Geocoding, Reverse Geocoding,Search, and ETA.Using these APIs in conjunction with MapKit and MapKit JSwill help you better architect your appsusing the Apple Maps stack.You can optimize redundant and repetitive callsby delegating those tasks to your back-end serverusing Apple Maps Server APIs.Daily quota for these APIs is 25,000and is shared with your MapKit JS service usage.And that's the new Apple Maps Server APIs for you.Be sure to check out the other sessions mentioned hereand detailed documentation linked below.We look forward to seeing how you take advantage of them.Thank you!♪

♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hop music ♪♪Hi, everyone! My name is Ankur Soni.

I'm an engineering manager on the Maps Services teamhere at Apple.

Today, we're going to look at some exciting new capabilitiescoming to the Maps developer ecosystem.

So let's get started.

Our Maps app offers various end-user experiencesto Apple customers around the globe.

We empower developers to createbeautiful geolocation experiences for their appsand websites through our MapKit and MapKit JS offerings.

However, our Apple Maps developer offeringhas always been very client-centric.

We have listened carefully to all your great feedback.

You wanted a way to augment your own data on MapKitwithout compromising on performance or power.

So to round out our ecosystem,we are excited to introduce the Apple Maps Server APIs.

We are introducing four new server APIs:Geocoding, Reverse Geocoding, Search,Estimated Time of Arrival -- or ETA.

These APIs will help you tackle a variety of use caseswhile integrating Maps into your applications.

With Geocoding APIs, you can convert an addressto geographic coordinates latitude and longitude.

Similarly, with Reverse Geocoding,you can do the opposite --go from geographic coordinates to an address.

With Search API, you can give your users the capabilityto enter a search string to discover placeslike businesses, points of interest, and more.

Maybe you want to overlay some of your own dataand present it to the user.

With ETA API, you can help your customersget a sense of how far your business is from themor do some computations to find the closest store.

The possibilities are endless!We think you'll love server APIs for three important reasons.

You can now deliver a seamless experience by leveragingMapKit, MapKit JS, and the new Apple Maps Server APIs.

This will simplify your application architecturegiving you a full Apple Maps stack.

This will make your life much easier.

For sure, it helped me.

But hey, I'm biased!The next benefit is the reduction in network calls.

Many times, we find ourselves in a situationwhere we are making repetitive and redundant requestsfrom our users' devices like an iPhone, iPad,websites, etcetera.

Maybe you are looking up the same address over and over againfrom your app running on different user devices.

This causes a lot of network calls and wasted bandwidth.

Delegating this common operation to your serverand doing it only once in the back end using server APIswill help your application consume less bandwidth.

A nice side effect of this is that now your applicationis power efficient too, since some processing is now delegatedto your server using Apple Maps Server APIs.

Now let's take some of these APIs for a spin.

Let's say we are building these contact cardsfor your store locator application.

Here we see three stores with their addressesand distance from the customer location.

In this example, we'll assume that the customerhas provided their location.

For now, let's focus on building one of these contact cards.

We'll assume that these addresses are on a serverwhich stores and serves the locations of comic bookstores.

There are many ways to build this, but for a second,let's assume we don't have these new server APIs.

What would a basic architecture look like?How would your client application get this data?In this diagram, our application is making a call to the serverto get the list of store addresses.

The back-end server returns a list of store addressesto your client device.

Since we don't have the server APIs in this example,now our client application has to perform various actionson the address to build the contact card.

To perform a single task,a client may have to make multiple callsto various back-end services.

Here you can see that the client app is making a calldirectly to the Apple Maps Server,either by using MapKit or MapKit JS.

This chattiness between a client and a back endcan adversely impact the performance and scaleof the application.

Over a cellular network with typically high latency,using individual requests in this manner is inefficientand could result in broken connectivityor incomplete requests.

While each request may be done in parallel,the application must send, wait, and process datafor each request all on separate connectionsincreasing the chance of failure.

Finally, you'll have to merge all the responses on the client.

And while all these calls happen,you are showing a spinner to the user.

Plus, the client device is using more bandwidthand power for these extra calls.

That is not a good user experience.

Now, let's look at a model architecturewith access to Apple Maps Server APIs.

You can start using your back-end server as a gatewayto reduce chattiness between the client and the services.

Just like before, here we request a list of storesto be displayed from your client.

Next, we make a request from the server to do geocoding.

We then receive responses for each APIfrom the Apple Maps Server.

The comic book server combines the responses from each serviceand sends the response to the application.

This pattern can reduce the number of requeststhat the application makes to back-end services,and improve application performanceover high-latency networks.

In summary, your client makes one call to your serverto get the list of stores.

Your server then does the heavy liftingto make appropriate API calls to compose a responsemost suited for your user.

So let's go back to our case study example here.

We'll use Geocoding and ETA APIto get the distance to the store.

We can use the Geocode API to find the latitude and longitudefor the store addresses, which we'll later usefor ETA calculations.

In this example, first, we are going to takethe address for the comic book store and URL encode it.

Next, we'll use the Geocode APIand pass this URL-encoded address as a query parameter.

We'll skip over the authentication details for nowand come back to it in a few slides.

In the response, you can see the latitude and longitudefor the address returned.

We'll repeat the same process to findthe latitude and longitude for the customer's address.

This will be later used for ETA calculations.

As you can see, there are more fields in the response.

I'll link the detailed documentationin the Resources section below.

Now, we can set the origin and destination on the ETA APIwith the data we got from the Geocode API.

As I mentioned before, we have the origin latitude, longitudeand the destination latitude, longitude.

We can specify up to 10 destinations here if needed.

We'll feed that in the ETA APIas origin and as destination query parameterswhich are URL encoded.

The response to the API is a list of ETAs,one for each destination provided.

In this case, we only have onesince we provided one destination.

Here for our example, we are interested in distanceMetersto calculate the distance to the store.

With this, we have all the pieces we need:the store address and the distance for the userto reach your store.

You can also choose to augment or overlay this datawith your own store information, like store hours.

In this way, you can leverage different server APIsto build your applications.

For other APIs, please refer to documentationlinked below this talk.

One critical piece we haven't talked about is authentication.

All the Apple Maps Server APIs are authenticated.

If you are using MapKit JS, you are already halfway there.

Apple Maps Server APIs use the same mechanism as MapKit JSto authenticate.

First, you'll download your private keyfrom your developer account.

You'll then use this private keyto generate a Maps auth token in JWT format.

There is a detailed doc about how to generate onelinked below.

You can then exchange this Maps auth tokenusing the token API to get Maps access token.

We'll authenticate the Maps auth token on the back endand send back Maps access token.

This is in JWT format and will be usedfor all API interactions.

This access token needs to be refreshed every 30 minutesby repeating the highlighted process here.

Now that we saw how the authentication flow looks like,here is a simple example of how to use the token APIto fetch the access token.

We are using the token API here.

We are passing the Maps auth token as a header.

You'll get back a Maps access tokenthat can be used to access the API.

This will be in JWT format and will have standard fieldslike expiry, issuedAt, etcetera.

As a convenience, the expiresInSeconds fieldshows for how long the token is valid for.

In this case, it's 30 minutes.

Keep in mind Maps auth tokenis not the same as Maps access token.

You exchange the Maps auth tokento get a 30-minute long Maps access tokento access the server APIs.

Let's take a quick look at how the API interactionwith Maps access token looks like.

We'll pass the Maps access token along with server API call.

It is added as a header to the API call,just like we saw a few slides ago.

The Apple Maps Server will validate the Maps access token.

Once the validation is successful,the Apple Maps Server will respond with an API response.

Now that I have covered APIs and authentication,let me talk about usage limits.

With great power comes great responsibility,so use your quota wisely.

There is a daily cap on how many API calls you can make,and it's big!You'll get a quota of 25,000 service calls per day in total.

Keep in mind, calling services via MapKit JS and server APIsuse the same quota.

If you need more, please reach out to us.

So, how do you keep track of all this?You can view your usage stats at the Maps developer dashboard.

Anybody using MapKit JS?This will look very familiar to you.

The server API usage is categorized as Services,which you can see highlighted here.

When the daily quota is exceeded,which means more than 25,000 server API calls,we'll start rejecting new service callsand respond with HTTP status 429,which means too many requests.

You should make sure that the app experiencedegrades gracefully in such scenarios.

In rare scenarios, when your servicemakes an unusual amount of requests --maybe it's due to some bug in your code or infrastructure --it's possible to get HTTP status 429 as well.

When you receive HTTP 429, it is importantnot to simply loop repeatedly in making requests.

A better approach is to retry with increasing delaysin between attempts.

This approach is known as exponential backoff.

So, what did we learn today?We are releasing four new server APIs.

These APIs are Geocoding, Reverse Geocoding,Search, and ETA.

Using these APIs in conjunction with MapKit and MapKit JSwill help you better architect your appsusing the Apple Maps stack.

You can optimize redundant and repetitive callsby delegating those tasks to your back-end serverusing Apple Maps Server APIs.

Daily quota for these APIs is 25,000and is shared with your MapKit JS service usage.

And that's the new Apple Maps Server APIs for you.

Be sure to check out the other sessions mentioned hereand detailed documentation linked below.

We look forward to seeing how you take advantage of them.

Thank you!♪

## Code Samples

