# Wwdc2022 10132

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Discover PhotoKit change historyPhotoKit can help you build rich, photo-centric features. Learn how you can easily track changes to image assets with the latest APIs in PhotoKit. We'll introduce you to the PHPhotoLibrary change history API and demonstrate how you can persist change tokens across launches to help your app recognize additions, deletions, and updates to someone's photo library.

To learn more about Photos library integration, be sure to watch "What's new in the Photos picker" from WWDC22 and "Improve access to Photos in your app" from WWDC21.ResourcesPhotoKitHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC23Embed the Photos Picker in your appWWDC22What's new in the Photos pickerWWDC21Improve access to Photos in your app

PhotoKit can help you build rich, photo-centric features. Learn how you can easily track changes to image assets with the latest APIs in PhotoKit. We'll introduce you to the PHPhotoLibrary change history API and demonstrate how you can persist change tokens across launches to help your app recognize additions, deletions, and updates to someone's photo library.

To learn more about Photos library integration, be sure to watch "What's new in the Photos picker" from WWDC22 and "Improve access to Photos in your app" from WWDC21.

PhotoKit

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Embed the Photos Picker in your app

What's new in the Photos picker

Improve access to Photos in your app

Search this video…♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hop music ♪♪Hi, my name is Mindyand I'm an engineer on the Photos team.Today, I'll be going over how to accessPhotos change history in your apps.PhotoKit provides a rich set of APIsfor accessing and updating photos, videos, and albumsstored in the photo library.PhotoKit is designed for apps that require a deep levelof Photos access and integrationfor managing or editing photos, custom cameras,or apps that give people a way to browse their photo libraryin a unique way.These types of applications may want to monitorhow the photo library changes over timeto closely mirror the Photos experience.Let's say I've created a social hiking appthat allows people to share and edit photosof hiking trips with friends.When someone launches the app,the app gathers photos from the start and end timestampof their latest hiking workout to generate a collageof their experience on the mountain.The collages stay in sync with the selected photosfrom the photo library.If someone receives hiking photosfrom a friend, for instance,the app will generate new collages using these updates.Up until now, in order for the appto discover newly inserted assetsand changes to previous hiking collages,the app would need to perform a series of fetches.To determine which assets were inserted,the app can fetch assetswith a date created later than the last app launch date.Determining asset updates and deletions is trickier.The app would need to refetch every asset in every collageand check the modification dateto determine asset updates,but this could bring up false positives,as the asset modification datecan be set by internal Photos processing activities.Deletions in the photo library are more difficult to track,as all tracked assets need to be fetched and diffedfor assets that were not returned with the fetch.In total, this means that there are three separate checksthat need to be done each time the app is launched,which can be especially costlyif the app is displaying large quantities of assets.Instead of performing different fetches and checksfor uncertain results,what if there was a way to know exactly what changedin one unified API call?Well, I'm excited to say that we've done just that!The new change history API allows for an easier wayto track offline updates to the photo library.Change history consists of a timeline of changessuch as insertions, updates,and deletions to the photo library.In this example timeline,there are a variety of asset, album, and folder changesin the change history from the past three days.Using this timeline, how can you determinewhich changes have happened in the last two days,or the last time you launched your app?You can now use a persistent change tokenthat represents the state of the photo libraryat a given point in time.This token can be persisted across app launches,and it can be used to fetch changes to the photo librarythat have occurred since that token,including third-party app changes.Note that if your app is in limited library mode,only changes for user-selected PhotoKit objectswill be returned.This change token is local to the deviceand is cheap to access from a persistent changeor photo library instance at any time.This new API is available on every platformthat supports PhotoKit: macOS, iOS, iPadOS, and tvOS.As your app is running and working with the photo library,you can store a persistent change token within the app.Later, you can use the token to fetch the photo library changesthat have occurred since.For each persistent change,you can grab the change detailsfor three types of Photos objects:asset, asset collection, and collection list.So what does this look like in code?You first use the last stored change tokento fetch the persistent changes.Next, you enumerate through the persistent changesand grab the change details -- in this case, of type "asset" --for each persistent change object.These change details provide informationon which local identifiers were updated, deleted,and inserted into the photo librarysince the change token.After processing these changes,you can store the last change token for future use.Let's compare and contrast the new persistent history APIwith the existing change observer APIs.PHChanges deal with active, in-memory fetch resultsand are used to record live changes to the photo librarywhile your app is running.Persistent history, on the other hand,records long-running changes to the photo library,and can be used to report changesfrom when your app is not active.You can use both or either of these APIsdepending on the requirements of your app.Going back to the hiking app example,I'd like to now use the persistent history APIto track asset changes in order to createand update hiking collages.First, I'll use the last stored change tokenand fetch the persistent changes.Next, I'll iterate through the persistent changes,grab the relevant asset change details,and process the inserted, updated,and deleted identifiers.Now I need to identify library changesthat affect the app from the change history,as the app doesn't need all of the informationreturned from fetching changes.It's important for the app to know which assetswere added to the photo library for new hiking workouts,and updated and deleted assetsreferenced in previous hiking collages.I've already identified the three setsof inserted, updated, and deleted asset local identifiersfrom enumerating through the persistent changes.How do I now update the app to reflect this?Using the insertedIdentifiers set,I can determine which assets were addedbetween hiking timestamps by fetching the inserted assetsand checking their creation datesagainst each hike start and end date.The updated assets may now have adjustments applied,so I can use the new hasAdjustments APIto check if I need to redraw the asset in the UI.I can use the deleted asset local identifiersto determine which collages need to be regenerated.Now I've handled all of the offline photo library changesand my app is up to date.Here are a few things you should keep in mindwhen using the new change history API.First, determine what changes are important to youand your app, and only check for those changes.Consider performing one large fetch requestof updated and inserted assetsinstead of multiple smaller requests to improve performance.Photo libraries can change a lot due to processingand sync activity under the hood,so you may end up enumerating througha large amount of changes,especially if your app is not frequently launched.Because of this, we recommendthat you ask for change history on a background threadto not block the UI.There are two types of errors that can occurwhen fetching persistent history.If the change tokenis older than the available history of changes,the expired change token error will be returned.In some cases, the persistent changecannot be relied upon to completely reconstructthe changes that occurred,and will return an error that change details are unavailable.In these instances, we recommendrefetching tracked objects in the photo libraryto ensure your app is up to date.Before we wrap up, there are a few morenew PhotoKit APIs I'd like to share with you.PhotoKit now supports accessing cinematic videosby media subtype and smart album.There are also two new error codes.If the photo library bundleis in a File Provider sync root directory on macOS,the library can become corrupted,and an error will be returned when trying to perform changes.If an asset resource cannot be founddue to network issues,the resource request will now return a network error.Please check the developer documentationfor all of the latest updates.Lastly, be sure to check out this year's sessionon the Photos picker,as it is the easiest way to work with and access Photos.We're so excited for you to use the new change history APIand all of the great new features in PhotoKit.Thank you!♪

♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hop music ♪♪Hi, my name is Mindyand I'm an engineer on the Photos team.

Today, I'll be going over how to accessPhotos change history in your apps.

PhotoKit provides a rich set of APIsfor accessing and updating photos, videos, and albumsstored in the photo library.

PhotoKit is designed for apps that require a deep levelof Photos access and integrationfor managing or editing photos, custom cameras,or apps that give people a way to browse their photo libraryin a unique way.

These types of applications may want to monitorhow the photo library changes over timeto closely mirror the Photos experience.

Let's say I've created a social hiking appthat allows people to share and edit photosof hiking trips with friends.

When someone launches the app,the app gathers photos from the start and end timestampof their latest hiking workout to generate a collageof their experience on the mountain.

The collages stay in sync with the selected photosfrom the photo library.

If someone receives hiking photosfrom a friend, for instance,the app will generate new collages using these updates.

Up until now, in order for the appto discover newly inserted assetsand changes to previous hiking collages,the app would need to perform a series of fetches.

To determine which assets were inserted,the app can fetch assetswith a date created later than the last app launch date.

Determining asset updates and deletions is trickier.

The app would need to refetch every asset in every collageand check the modification dateto determine asset updates,but this could bring up false positives,as the asset modification datecan be set by internal Photos processing activities.

Deletions in the photo library are more difficult to track,as all tracked assets need to be fetched and diffedfor assets that were not returned with the fetch.

In total, this means that there are three separate checksthat need to be done each time the app is launched,which can be especially costlyif the app is displaying large quantities of assets.

Instead of performing different fetches and checksfor uncertain results,what if there was a way to know exactly what changedin one unified API call?Well, I'm excited to say that we've done just that!The new change history API allows for an easier wayto track offline updates to the photo library.

Change history consists of a timeline of changessuch as insertions, updates,and deletions to the photo library.

In this example timeline,there are a variety of asset, album, and folder changesin the change history from the past three days.

Using this timeline, how can you determinewhich changes have happened in the last two days,or the last time you launched your app?You can now use a persistent change tokenthat represents the state of the photo libraryat a given point in time.

This token can be persisted across app launches,and it can be used to fetch changes to the photo librarythat have occurred since that token,including third-party app changes.

Note that if your app is in limited library mode,only changes for user-selected PhotoKit objectswill be returned.

This change token is local to the deviceand is cheap to access from a persistent changeor photo library instance at any time.

This new API is available on every platformthat supports PhotoKit: macOS, iOS, iPadOS, and tvOS.

As your app is running and working with the photo library,you can store a persistent change token within the app.

Later, you can use the token to fetch the photo library changesthat have occurred since.

For each persistent change,you can grab the change detailsfor three types of Photos objects:asset, asset collection, and collection list.

So what does this look like in code?You first use the last stored change tokento fetch the persistent changes.

Next, you enumerate through the persistent changesand grab the change details -- in this case, of type "asset" --for each persistent change object.

These change details provide informationon which local identifiers were updated, deleted,and inserted into the photo librarysince the change token.

After processing these changes,you can store the last change token for future use.

Let's compare and contrast the new persistent history APIwith the existing change observer APIs.

PHChanges deal with active, in-memory fetch resultsand are used to record live changes to the photo librarywhile your app is running.

Persistent history, on the other hand,records long-running changes to the photo library,and can be used to report changesfrom when your app is not active.

You can use both or either of these APIsdepending on the requirements of your app.

Going back to the hiking app example,I'd like to now use the persistent history APIto track asset changes in order to createand update hiking collages.

First, I'll use the last stored change tokenand fetch the persistent changes.

Next, I'll iterate through the persistent changes,grab the relevant asset change details,and process the inserted, updated,and deleted identifiers.

Now I need to identify library changesthat affect the app from the change history,as the app doesn't need all of the informationreturned from fetching changes.

It's important for the app to know which assetswere added to the photo library for new hiking workouts,and updated and deleted assetsreferenced in previous hiking collages.

I've already identified the three setsof inserted, updated, and deleted asset local identifiersfrom enumerating through the persistent changes.

How do I now update the app to reflect this?Using the insertedIdentifiers set,I can determine which assets were addedbetween hiking timestamps by fetching the inserted assetsand checking their creation datesagainst each hike start and end date.

The updated assets may now have adjustments applied,so I can use the new hasAdjustments APIto check if I need to redraw the asset in the UI.

I can use the deleted asset local identifiersto determine which collages need to be regenerated.

Now I've handled all of the offline photo library changesand my app is up to date.

Here are a few things you should keep in mindwhen using the new change history API.

First, determine what changes are important to youand your app, and only check for those changes.

Consider performing one large fetch requestof updated and inserted assetsinstead of multiple smaller requests to improve performance.

Photo libraries can change a lot due to processingand sync activity under the hood,so you may end up enumerating througha large amount of changes,especially if your app is not frequently launched.

Because of this, we recommendthat you ask for change history on a background threadto not block the UI.

There are two types of errors that can occurwhen fetching persistent history.

If the change tokenis older than the available history of changes,the expired change token error will be returned.

In some cases, the persistent changecannot be relied upon to completely reconstructthe changes that occurred,and will return an error that change details are unavailable.

In these instances, we recommendrefetching tracked objects in the photo libraryto ensure your app is up to date.

Before we wrap up, there are a few morenew PhotoKit APIs I'd like to share with you.

PhotoKit now supports accessing cinematic videosby media subtype and smart album.

There are also two new error codes.

If the photo library bundleis in a File Provider sync root directory on macOS,the library can become corrupted,and an error will be returned when trying to perform changes.

If an asset resource cannot be founddue to network issues,the resource request will now return a network error.

Please check the developer documentationfor all of the latest updates.

Lastly, be sure to check out this year's sessionon the Photos picker,as it is the easiest way to work with and access Photos.

We're so excited for you to use the new change history APIand all of the great new features in PhotoKit.

Thank you!♪

0:01 -Tracking photo library changes

0:02 -Tracking photo library changes (2)

0:03 -Fetching persistent changes using persistent change token

0:04 -Identifying important changes

0:05 -Using inserted identifiers

0:06 -Using updated identifiers

0:07 -Using deleted identifiers

0:08 -Handling errors

## Code Samples

```swift
// Discover added assets


let
 options 
=
 
PHFetchOptions
()
options.predicate 
=
 
NSPredicate
(format: 
"creationDate > %@"
, lastLaunchDate 
as
 
CVarArg
)

let
 insertedAssets 
=
 
PHAsset
.fetchAssets(with: options)
```

```swift
let
 fetchResult 
=
 
PHAsset
.fetchAssets(with: localIdentifiers, options: 
nil
)

// Discover all modified and deleted assets

fetchResult.enumerateObjects { asset, idx, stop 
in

    
if
 asset.modificationDate
?
.compare(lastLaunchDate) 
==
 .orderedDescending {
        
// Asset could have been modified

    }
    
if
 
!
localIdentifiers.contains(asset.localIdentifier) {
        
// Asset could have been deleted

    }
}
```

```swift
let
 persistentChanges 
=
 
try!
 
PHPhotoLibrary
.shared().fetchPersistentChanges(since: 
self
.lastStoredToken)


for
 persistentChange 
in
 persistentChanges { 
   
if
 
let
 changeDetails 
=
 persistentChange.changeDetails(for: 
PHObjectType
.as
set
) {
        
let
 updatedIdentifiers 
=
 changeDetails.updatedLocalIdentifiers
        
let
 deletedIdentifiers 
=
 changeDetails.deletedLocalIdentifiers
        
let
 insertedIdentifiers 
=
 changeDetails.insertedLocalIdentifiers
    }
}


// After processing change details


self
.lastStoredToken 
=
 lastPersistentChange.changeToken
```

```swift
// Get last stored change token


let
 changeToken 
=
 
self
.lastStoredToken


// Fetch persistent changes


let
 persistentChanges 
=
 
try!
   
         library.fetchPersistentChanges(since: changeToken)


for
 persistentChange 
in
 persistentChanges {
    
// Grab change details and process updates

}
```

```swift
let
 insertedAssets 
=
 
PHAsset
.fetchAssets(with: insertedIdentifiers, options: 
nil
)
insertedAssets.enumerateObjects { asset, idx, stop 
in

   
for
 hike 
in
 hikes {
        
let
 dateInterval 
=
 
NSDateInterval
(start: hike.startDate, end: hike.endDate)
        
if
 dateInterval.contains(asset.creationDate) {
            
// This hike contains a new added asset

        }
    }
}
```

```swift
let
 updatedAssets 
=
 
PHAsset
.fetchAssets(with: updatedIdentifiers, options: 
nil
)
updatedAssets.enumerateObjects { asset, idx, stop 
in

    
if
 asset.hasAdjustments {
        
// This asset has edits

    }
}
```

```swift
for
 deletedIdentifier 
in
 deletedIdentifiers {
    
for
 collage 
in
 collages {
        
if
 collage.assetLocalIdentifiers.contains(deletedIdentifier) {
            
// This collage needs to be redrawn

        }
    }
}
```

```swift
do
 {
    
let
 persistentChanges 
=
 
try
 library.fetchPersistentChanges(since: changeToken)
} 
catch
 
PHPhotosError
.persistentChangeTokenExpired,
        
PHPhotosError
.persistentChangeDetailsUnavailable {
    
let
 fetchResult 
=
 
PHAsset
.fetchAssets(with: trackedIdentifiers, options: options)
    
// Use fetch result

}
```

