# Wwdc2022 10043

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

What's new in App Store ConnectDiscover the latest updates to App Store Connect, your suite of tools to create, manage, and submit apps on the App Store. Learn about enhancements to the submission experience — including the ability to manage submissions in App Store Connect on iOS and iPadOS — as well as the newest updates to the App Store Connect API and much more.ResourcesApp Store ConnectApp Store Connect APIHD VideoSD Video

Discover the latest updates to App Store Connect, your suite of tools to create, manage, and submit apps on the App Store. Learn about enhancements to the submission experience — including the ability to manage submissions in App Store Connect on iOS and iPadOS — as well as the newest updates to the App Store Connect API and much more.

App Store Connect

App Store Connect API

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Search this video…♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hip music ♪♪Hello, and welcome to "What's New in App Store Connect."My name's Will Averill, and I'm an engineering manageron the App Store Connect team.App Store Connect has grown considerably over the years.You use it to create, manage, and grow your appson the App Store across all of our platforms.And we continue to bring new features to App Store Connecton web, our iOS and iPadOS app, and the App Store Connect API.Just last year, we launched a bunch of great new features.You've probably heard all about things like in-app events,custom product pages, and TestFlight for Mac.So instead, let me quickly highlighta couple recent updates you might have missed.In TestFlight, we made managing your build'sassociated tester groups easier.With just one click, you can now quickly add or removea tester group to a builddirectly from the Versions or Build Groups tab.We also heard your feedback loud and clear,so we made an update allowing you to transfer appsthat use Apple Wallet.And finally, to facilitate the submission processfor in-app events, custom product pages,and product page optimization,we launched the enhanced App Store submission experience.This is one the biggest enhancements we've madeto the submission workflow,so let's explore this together in a bit more detail.First, you're now able to group multiple itemsinto a single submission.Additionally -- in most cases --you can choose to submit without a new app version.And we introduced a dedicated App Review pagewhere you can manage in-progress submissions,communicate with App Review,and even view recently completed submissions.Let's start by talking about what it meansto group items in a review submission.Say we have a number of custom product pagesor any other review items we want to publish to the store.Since review items can only be submittedas part of a review submission,the first step is to add them to one.Think of a review submission as the vehiclethat carries review items to and from App Review.Now, a review submission only needs one item to be submitted,but the advantage to grouping several itemsis they are all reviewed in context together.This helps ensure a consistent and efficient review.In fact, all review submissionsare typically reviewed within 24 hours,regardless of the number or type of review items.After review, each item in the submissionwill be marked as accepted or rejected.It's very important to understandthat no review items are approveduntil all items in the review submission are accepted.So let's look at two ways to move forwardwith a review submission that has rejected items.The first option is to edit any of these rejected review itemsand then resubmit.If those items now come back accepted,the review submission is completeand every item is approvedand able to be published to the App Store.The other option is to simply removeany rejected items from the submission.This leaves the review submissionwith only approved items,once again completing the review process.However, keep in mind that any removed itemswill need to be resubmitted as a part of a new submissionin order to become approved.And before I move on,let me specify that review submission itemscan be app versions, in-app events,custom product pages, or product page optimization tests.Now, let's take a look at how you're able to submitwithout a new app version.To understand how this works,let's discuss a few more specificsabout review submissions.First, each submission has an associated platform.In addition, each platform supportsa specific set of review items.Although, as you can see, most items are reviewedand grouped as part of an iOS submission.And lastly, you can have one in-progress review submissionper platform.In this example, you can see we're workingtowards submitting all three versions of our app.But, let's go ahead and take a closer lookat the iOS review submission.App Review reviews all items in a submissionagainst an app version to ensure everything is consistent.If there's an app version in the submission,that becomes the version used for review.But like I mentioned earlier,you can submit without adding a new version to your submission.To do this requires a previously approved versionof your app.Of course, once submitted,items will be reviewed against this version.This means you're able to submit in-app events,custom product pages and product page optimization testsanytime after your first iOS version is approved,without needing a new app binary.So now that I've explained how this experience works,let me show you where the dedicatedApp Review submission page lives in App Store Connect.Once you've logged in and selected an app,click the App Review link on the left nav menu.This is the App Review pagewhere you can manage your entire review workflow.Here, you can see an overview of your submissionsand click into any of them for a more detailed look.Now obviously, using the web UI is great,but wouldn't it be nice to submit and tracksubmission status on the go?That's why we're excited to sharethat we've brought the enhanced submission experienceto App Store Connect on iPadOS and iOS with this week's update.You'll now be able to submitany of your Ready for Review submissions to App Reviewfrom anywhere, with just one tap.Once submitted,you can track the progress of your review submissions.And you can opt in to receive timely notificationsabout status updatesas well as manage your submission by removing items,viewing rejection reasons, and replying to App Review.So that's the enhanced App Store submission experience,available now on App Store Connectfor iPadOS and iOS.Let's shift gears a bit and focus onthe App Store Connect APIwhich represents a great way for you to customizeand automate your app workflows.Best of all, we're always working to add new capabilitiesto the API.Last year, we added support for App Clips, Xcode Cloud,in-app events, custom product pages,product page optimization,and even the enhanced App Store submission experienceI just described.And this year is no different.With our huge 2.0 release coming this summer,we're expanding the number of resources in the APIby 60 percent.In this summer's release,we're adding some great new functionalitythat has been heavily requested.Beginning with a comprehensive set of APIsto manage your entire in-app purchaseand subscription lifecycle.We started by breaking subscriptionsinto their own resourceand giving you full control to create, edit, or deleteany of your in-app purchases or subscriptions.You'll also be able to manage pricing, submit for review,and create special offers and promo codes.We can't wait to see how you take advantageof this new opportunity to automate your in-app purchaseand subscription workflows.We're also adding the abilityto fetch and respond to your app's customer reviews.The goal here is to allow you to buildsome great custom workflows around customer interaction.And lastly, we're adding additional reporting datato the power and performance metrics and diagnostics APIsfor app hangs.Identifying and eliminating hangs in your appis a great way to increase performanceand improve user experience.But until now, you could only view metricslike your app's hang rate through the API.That changes this summer as we're addinga new diagnostic type for app hangs.You'll be able use this typewith the existing diagnostic signatures resourceto discover the places in your appthat contribute most to hangs.Not only that, but you'll also be able to seedetailed stack traces for these hang signaturesthrough the diagnostic logs relationship.I've just barely scratched the surface here,so if you'd like to learn more about how these APIs workor how to use this data to discover additional insightsinto your app's behavior,definitely check out these two related sessions.Overall, the App Store Connect API 2.0 releaserepresents a major milestone.After four years of development, we've fully embraced REST APIsas the future of App Store Connect automation.As a result, we'll begin to decommissionthe XML feed this fall.Therefore, we highly encourage you to align your integrationwith the App Store Connect API moving forward.In summary, we recommend taking full advantageof the enhanced App Store submission experiencein order streamline your review process.Also, be sure to download the latest releaseof App Store Connect for iOS and iPadOS,which adds support for the enhanced submission experienceand several other updates.And finally, we're adding a bunch of new capabilitiesto the App Store Connect APIwith the 2.0 release this summer.We strongly suggest working to integrate with our API,especially as we begin to decommission the XML feedlater this fall.As always, we look forward to hearing your feedbackand hope you have a great WWDC!Thanks for watching.♪

♪ Mellow instrumental hip-hip music ♪♪Hello, and welcome to "What's New in App Store Connect."My name's Will Averill, and I'm an engineering manageron the App Store Connect team.

App Store Connect has grown considerably over the years.

You use it to create, manage, and grow your appson the App Store across all of our platforms.

And we continue to bring new features to App Store Connecton web, our iOS and iPadOS app, and the App Store Connect API.

Just last year, we launched a bunch of great new features.

You've probably heard all about things like in-app events,custom product pages, and TestFlight for Mac.

So instead, let me quickly highlighta couple recent updates you might have missed.

In TestFlight, we made managing your build'sassociated tester groups easier.

With just one click, you can now quickly add or removea tester group to a builddirectly from the Versions or Build Groups tab.

We also heard your feedback loud and clear,so we made an update allowing you to transfer appsthat use Apple Wallet.

And finally, to facilitate the submission processfor in-app events, custom product pages,and product page optimization,we launched the enhanced App Store submission experience.

This is one the biggest enhancements we've madeto the submission workflow,so let's explore this together in a bit more detail.

First, you're now able to group multiple itemsinto a single submission.

Additionally -- in most cases --you can choose to submit without a new app version.

And we introduced a dedicated App Review pagewhere you can manage in-progress submissions,communicate with App Review,and even view recently completed submissions.

Let's start by talking about what it meansto group items in a review submission.

Say we have a number of custom product pagesor any other review items we want to publish to the store.

Since review items can only be submittedas part of a review submission,the first step is to add them to one.

Think of a review submission as the vehiclethat carries review items to and from App Review.

Now, a review submission only needs one item to be submitted,but the advantage to grouping several itemsis they are all reviewed in context together.

This helps ensure a consistent and efficient review.

In fact, all review submissionsare typically reviewed within 24 hours,regardless of the number or type of review items.

After review, each item in the submissionwill be marked as accepted or rejected.

It's very important to understandthat no review items are approveduntil all items in the review submission are accepted.

So let's look at two ways to move forwardwith a review submission that has rejected items.

The first option is to edit any of these rejected review itemsand then resubmit.

If those items now come back accepted,the review submission is completeand every item is approvedand able to be published to the App Store.

The other option is to simply removeany rejected items from the submission.

This leaves the review submissionwith only approved items,once again completing the review process.

However, keep in mind that any removed itemswill need to be resubmitted as a part of a new submissionin order to become approved.

And before I move on,let me specify that review submission itemscan be app versions, in-app events,custom product pages, or product page optimization tests.

Now, let's take a look at how you're able to submitwithout a new app version.

To understand how this works,let's discuss a few more specificsabout review submissions.

First, each submission has an associated platform.

In addition, each platform supportsa specific set of review items.

Although, as you can see, most items are reviewedand grouped as part of an iOS submission.

And lastly, you can have one in-progress review submissionper platform.

In this example, you can see we're workingtowards submitting all three versions of our app.

But, let's go ahead and take a closer lookat the iOS review submission.

App Review reviews all items in a submissionagainst an app version to ensure everything is consistent.

If there's an app version in the submission,that becomes the version used for review.

But like I mentioned earlier,you can submit without adding a new version to your submission.

To do this requires a previously approved versionof your app.

Of course, once submitted,items will be reviewed against this version.

This means you're able to submit in-app events,custom product pages and product page optimization testsanytime after your first iOS version is approved,without needing a new app binary.

So now that I've explained how this experience works,let me show you where the dedicatedApp Review submission page lives in App Store Connect.

Once you've logged in and selected an app,click the App Review link on the left nav menu.

This is the App Review pagewhere you can manage your entire review workflow.

Here, you can see an overview of your submissionsand click into any of them for a more detailed look.

Now obviously, using the web UI is great,but wouldn't it be nice to submit and tracksubmission status on the go?That's why we're excited to sharethat we've brought the enhanced submission experienceto App Store Connect on iPadOS and iOS with this week's update.

You'll now be able to submitany of your Ready for Review submissions to App Reviewfrom anywhere, with just one tap.

Once submitted,you can track the progress of your review submissions.

And you can opt in to receive timely notificationsabout status updatesas well as manage your submission by removing items,viewing rejection reasons, and replying to App Review.

So that's the enhanced App Store submission experience,available now on App Store Connectfor iPadOS and iOS.

Let's shift gears a bit and focus onthe App Store Connect APIwhich represents a great way for you to customizeand automate your app workflows.

Best of all, we're always working to add new capabilitiesto the API.

Last year, we added support for App Clips, Xcode Cloud,in-app events, custom product pages,product page optimization,and even the enhanced App Store submission experienceI just described.

And this year is no different.

With our huge 2.0 release coming this summer,we're expanding the number of resources in the APIby 60 percent.

In this summer's release,we're adding some great new functionalitythat has been heavily requested.

Beginning with a comprehensive set of APIsto manage your entire in-app purchaseand subscription lifecycle.

We started by breaking subscriptionsinto their own resourceand giving you full control to create, edit, or deleteany of your in-app purchases or subscriptions.

You'll also be able to manage pricing, submit for review,and create special offers and promo codes.

We can't wait to see how you take advantageof this new opportunity to automate your in-app purchaseand subscription workflows.

We're also adding the abilityto fetch and respond to your app's customer reviews.

The goal here is to allow you to buildsome great custom workflows around customer interaction.

And lastly, we're adding additional reporting datato the power and performance metrics and diagnostics APIsfor app hangs.

Identifying and eliminating hangs in your appis a great way to increase performanceand improve user experience.

But until now, you could only view metricslike your app's hang rate through the API.

That changes this summer as we're addinga new diagnostic type for app hangs.

You'll be able use this typewith the existing diagnostic signatures resourceto discover the places in your appthat contribute most to hangs.

Not only that, but you'll also be able to seedetailed stack traces for these hang signaturesthrough the diagnostic logs relationship.

I've just barely scratched the surface here,so if you'd like to learn more about how these APIs workor how to use this data to discover additional insightsinto your app's behavior,definitely check out these two related sessions.

Overall, the App Store Connect API 2.0 releaserepresents a major milestone.

After four years of development, we've fully embraced REST APIsas the future of App Store Connect automation.

As a result, we'll begin to decommissionthe XML feed this fall.

Therefore, we highly encourage you to align your integrationwith the App Store Connect API moving forward.

In summary, we recommend taking full advantageof the enhanced App Store submission experiencein order streamline your review process.

Also, be sure to download the latest releaseof App Store Connect for iOS and iPadOS,which adds support for the enhanced submission experienceand several other updates.

And finally, we're adding a bunch of new capabilitiesto the App Store Connect APIwith the 2.0 release this summer.

We strongly suggest working to integrate with our API,especially as we begin to decommission the XML feedlater this fall.

As always, we look forward to hearing your feedbackand hope you have a great WWDC!Thanks for watching.

♪

## Code Samples

