# Wwdc2022 110930

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

WWDC22 Day 2 recapReady for your Day 2 briefing? Catch up on all the great sessions from Tuesday and get a sneak peek at the day ahead.ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC22Adopt Variable Color in SF SymbolsCreate engaging content for Swift PlaygroundsCreate parametric 3D room scans with RoomPlanEnhance voice communication with Push to TalkMeet distributed actors in SwiftPlug-in and play: Add Apple frameworks to your Unity game projectsThe SwiftUI cookbook for navigationWhat's new in XcodeWhat’s new in iPad app designWhat’s new in privacyWWDC22 Day 1 recapWWDC22 Day 3 recapWWDC22 Day 4 recapWWDC22 Day 5 recap

Ready for your Day 2 briefing? Catch up on all the great sessions from Tuesday and get a sneak peek at the day ahead.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Adopt Variable Color in SF Symbols

Create engaging content for Swift Playgrounds

Create parametric 3D room scans with RoomPlan

Enhance voice communication with Push to Talk

Meet distributed actors in Swift

Plug-in and play: Add Apple frameworks to your Unity game projects

The SwiftUI cookbook for navigation

What's new in Xcode

What’s new in iPad app design

What’s new in privacy

WWDC22 Day 1 recap

WWDC22 Day 3 recap

WWDC22 Day 4 recap

WWDC22 Day 5 recap

Search this video…♪ Bass-heavy electronic music ♪Ready for your day two briefing?Let's jump right in, shall we?First, we cooked up new waysto navigate within your SwiftUI apps.- This recipe is our pièce de résistance.Then we learned more about the new features in Xcode 14.- You can choose the level of detailthat's right for you.And Jared showed us new plug-insfor adding Apple frameworks to your Unity game projects.- The Core Haptics Unity plug-in gives you the tools you needto add an entirely new level of immersion into your games.- And there's a brand-new way to do 3D scanswith RoomPlan.- Apple has enabled powerful new waysfor people to bring the world into their apps.And then Paul showed developers how they canuse color to make SF Symbols even more expressive.And we introduced the new Push to Talk framework for iOS.- Hey Trevor.Are you ready to cover your WWDC slides?- Hey Kevin.I'll be ready in a few minutes.Can you hear me? Over.Here's some intel for tomorrow.♪Developers, we'll be in contact.♪

♪ Bass-heavy electronic music ♪Ready for your day two briefing?Let's jump right in, shall we?First, we cooked up new waysto navigate within your SwiftUI apps.

- This recipe is our pièce de résistance.

Then we learned more about the new features in Xcode 14.

- You can choose the level of detailthat's right for you.

And Jared showed us new plug-insfor adding Apple frameworks to your Unity game projects.

- The Core Haptics Unity plug-in gives you the tools you needto add an entirely new level of immersion into your games.

- And there's a brand-new way to do 3D scanswith RoomPlan.

- Apple has enabled powerful new waysfor people to bring the world into their apps.

And then Paul showed developers how they canuse color to make SF Symbols even more expressive.

And we introduced the new Push to Talk framework for iOS.

- Hey Trevor.

Are you ready to cover your WWDC slides?- Hey Kevin.

I'll be ready in a few minutes.Can you hear me? Over.

Here's some intel for tomorrow.

♪Developers, we'll be in contact.

♪

## Code Samples

