# Wwdc2022 110932

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

WWDC22 Day 4 recapIt's time to review Day 4. Check out the Thursday highlights and tune in for a quick preview of the last day of WWDC22.ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC22Author fast and reliable tests for Xcode CloudCreate accessible Single App Mode experiencesEfficiency awaits: Background tasks in SwiftUIMake a great SharePlay experienceSwiftUI on iPad: Organize your interfaceUse SwiftUI with UIKitWhat's new in PDFKitWhat's new in VisionWriting for interfacesWWDC22 Day 1 recapWWDC22 Day 2 recapWWDC22 Day 3 recap

It's time to review Day 4. Check out the Thursday highlights and tune in for a quick preview of the last day of WWDC22.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Author fast and reliable tests for Xcode Cloud

Create accessible Single App Mode experiences

Efficiency awaits: Background tasks in SwiftUI

Make a great SharePlay experience

SwiftUI on iPad: Organize your interface

Use SwiftUI with UIKit

What's new in PDFKit

What's new in Vision

Writing for interfaces

WWDC22 Day 1 recap

WWDC22 Day 2 recap

WWDC22 Day 3 recap

Search this video…♪ Bass-heavy electronic music ♪It's time to review day four.Roll the tape!We checked in with Raj on how you canorganize your iPad interface with SwiftUI.- Better support for state restoration, deep linking,and even richer programmatic control.- Cool.- Then Sara showed us how to bring the power of SwiftUIto your UIKit apps.- You can use the hosting controlleranywhere you can use a view controller in UIKit.- Later on, Brett took us throughthe latest updates for Vision.- Here we compute optical flow for a short clipof this dog fetching a water bottle on a beach.- And we discovered how to createcompelling SharePlay experiences.- Think of SharePlay like a portal,transporting people through their phonesand into the same space.- We also got a lesson in languagefrom Apple's interface writers.- Writing for interfaces begins with curiosityfor who's on the other side of the screen.- And now for the intel on day five.♪Check back in tomorrow for our final report.♪

♪ Bass-heavy electronic music ♪It's time to review day four.

Roll the tape!We checked in with Raj on how you canorganize your iPad interface with SwiftUI.

- Better support for state restoration, deep linking,and even richer programmatic control.

- Cool.

- Then Sara showed us how to bring the power of SwiftUIto your UIKit apps.

- You can use the hosting controlleranywhere you can use a view controller in UIKit.

- Later on, Brett took us throughthe latest updates for Vision.

- Here we compute optical flow for a short clipof this dog fetching a water bottle on a beach.

- And we discovered how to createcompelling SharePlay experiences.

- Think of SharePlay like a portal,transporting people through their phonesand into the same space.

- We also got a lesson in languagefrom Apple's interface writers.

- Writing for interfaces begins with curiosityfor who's on the other side of the screen.

- And now for the intel on day five.

♪Check back in tomorrow for our final report.

♪

## Code Samples

