# Wwdc2020 10231

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Reduce latency with HLS Blocking Playlist ReloadBlocking Playlist Reload is a required component of Low-Latency HLS that improves segment discovery time in live streams and addresses the common problem of stale playlists when delivering through an HTTP cache. Learn how to use Blocking Playlist Reload to reduce streaming latency and improve CDN performance for both low-latency and regular live HLS streams.ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC20Adapt ad insertion to Low-Latency HLSDiscover HLS Blocking Preload HintsImprove stream authoring with HLS ToolsOptimize live streams with HLS Playlist Delta UpdatesWhat's new in Low-Latency HLS

Blocking Playlist Reload is a required component of Low-Latency HLS that improves segment discovery time in live streams and addresses the common problem of stale playlists when delivering through an HTTP cache. Learn how to use Blocking Playlist Reload to reduce streaming latency and improve CDN performance for both low-latency and regular live HLS streams.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Adapt ad insertion to Low-Latency HLS

Discover HLS Blocking Preload Hints

Improve stream authoring with HLS Tools

Optimize live streams with HLS Playlist Delta Updates

What's new in Low-Latency HLS

Search this video…♪Hello, and welcome to WWDC.Roger Pantos: Hello, and welcome to this year's WWDC.My name is Roger Pantosand I'm going to tell you about HLS Blocking Playlist Reload.To start with, what is Blocking Playlist Reload?Well, a fundamental aspect of HLSis that clients are discovering new segments constantlyby reloading the playlist.The original approach was just to reload the same playlist URLevery target duration.Now that's nice and simple,but it doesn't work well with low-latencybecause if a client just misses a playlist update,it'll take another target durationbefore it finally notices it.And so for Low-Latency HLS,we introduced the notion of delivery directiveswhich are a way for the client to ask the serverto perform some kind of service for itby adding query parameters to its GET requests.For Blocking Playlist Reload,clients can use a delivery directive to tell a server,"Hold onto this Playlist request until the Playlists you seecontains a segment that I haven't seen yet."Once that playlist updates with that segment,the server will unblock and send it to the client.So let's take a look at how that works in detail.First of all, Blocking Playlist Reloadsare optional so the server needs to indicatethat it supports them.And it does that by adding a CAN-BLOCK-RELOAD attributeto its server control tag.Next, a client will load a playlist for the first time.It doesn't supply any query parametersbecause at this point it just wantswhatever's current on the server.As soon as it gets the playlist,it will immediately turn around and issue a reload request.And now, it will use the _HLS_msn delivery directiveto specify the first new segment that it hasn't seen yet.If it's a low-latency playlist then it will also specifythe next partial segment that it expects to see.The server will then hold on to that requestuntil it has a playlist that's new enough.Now let's see how that looks graphically.Here, we have an HLS client to the leftand a server to the right.The client asks for a playlist that contains Partial Segment 2,for example.The server doesn't have Partial Segment 2 yetso it blocks.Eventually, Partial Segment 2 will appearand will get added to the playlist.Now the server can unblock the client requestand send it the updated playlist as the response.Let's take a look at an actual example.We'll start with a regular playlist,not a low-latency one.Here is a regular, live HLS Playlist.The first thing to notice is that the serveris advertising that it supports Blocking Playlist Reloadin its server control tag.Next, the media sequence number is 19 and that refers tothe first segment in the playlist which here is segmentA.Now if you count four segments downall the way to the bottom to segmentE,you'll see that it has a Media Sequence Number of 23.And that means that the next time a playlist is updatedwith a new segment,that new segment will be Media Sequence Number 24.So to ask for that update, the client will usethe _HLS_msn=24 delivery directive.When it receives this request,the server will block until the playlist is updatedand then it will return the newer version of the playlist.And at the end, it now contains segmentF,also known a Media Sequence Number 24.So that's the flow of Blocking Playlist Reloadfor regular segments.Now let's see what happens for low-latency.In this example,we'll see how the client asks for the next playlistwhen it contains partial segments as well.So here we have a live low-latency playlist.You can see that the segmentshave a target duration of 6 secondswhile the partial segments have a part target durationof 2 seconds.At the end of the playlist are the first two partsof segment 7 part 0 and part 1.Given that the last thing in this playlist right nowis Media Sequence 7 part 1, to get the next playlist,the client will need to ask for Media Sequence 7 part 2.And so that request looks like this.The server will hold onto it until playlist updates againand then send back this response.And now we can see that there is a new partial segmentwhich has Media Sequence Number 7 part 2.Now, you may be wondering if the client is always askingfor the next part of the current media sequence number,what happens at the end of the segment?Well let's go back to our earlier playlist.Here, the next playlist request will be for segment 7 part 3.Now the server will translate any request for a partthat goes beyond the end of the parent segmentinto a request for part 0 of the segment that follows it.So in this case, the server will blockuntil it returns this playlist,where it now contains part 0 of Segment 8 at the end.There are a few other exceptional casesto know about for Blocking Playlist Reload.First, the media sequence number and part delivery directivesonly apply for live playlists.That means they're ignored if the playlist has an ENDLIST tag.Next, if a client asks for a particular playlist updateand the server already has it,it returns the latest playlist right away.That's also true even if the playlist is newerthan what the client has asked for,if it's advanced ahead by a couple of partial segments.And in fact, to take it to the greatest extreme,if the segment the client asks forhas already rolled out of the playlist completely,the server will still unblock immediatelyand return the current playlist.The rule is that the origin always returnsthe current version of a playlistas long as it's new enough.Finally, if the server has to wait too longfor the playlist to update --if it has to wait more than three target durations --it will return an error.Now that should only happen if there's a serious problemwith the backend production.Another interesting area to talk about is howBlocking Playlist Reload interacts with CDNsand other HTTP caches.The good news here is that Blocking Playlist Reloadactually works a lot better with cacheseven than traditional live HLS.A big reason for that is having a unique URLfor each individual Playlist update allows each requestto be cached independently.So the update requests a response for msn=23,for example, can live in the same cachealongside the request and response for msn=24.Now this has a couple of useful consequences.First, a new request will effectively bust throughthe cache because it will present a combinationof query parameters that the cache has never seen before.So the cache knows to send the request right alongto the origin.Second, each response has a longer useful lifetimein the cache because it doesn't have to compete with itself.You no longer have to expire every playlist responseat a half target durationthe way you do with regular live HLS Playlists.And in fact, we recommend a lifetime of six target durationsfor successful playlist responses.The other thing worth sayingis that with Blocking Playlist Reloadand other delivery directives, you have to configure your CDNto coalesce duplicate edge requestsinto a single request to the origin.Because, when you have an active origin,you want to do everything you can to help reduce its load.So to summarize Blocking Playlist Reload.It's a new mechanism in HLS that allows clientsto discover new segmentsas soon as they become available on the server.Clients request them by usingthe _HLS_ msn and _HLS_part delivery directives.Blocking Playlists Reload works better with CDNsboth in a positive sense of enabling more cachingand also in a negative senseof explicitly busting that cache for new requests.This helps out with regular live HLS streamsand it's required for low-latency streams.We encourage you to adopt Blocking Playlist Reloadto improve the delivery of HLS to your users.Thank you very much.♪

♪Hello, and welcome to WWDC.

Roger Pantos: Hello, and welcome to this year's WWDC.

My name is Roger Pantosand I'm going to tell you about HLS Blocking Playlist Reload.

To start with, what is Blocking Playlist Reload?Well, a fundamental aspect of HLSis that clients are discovering new segments constantlyby reloading the playlist.

The original approach was just to reload the same playlist URLevery target duration.

Now that's nice and simple,but it doesn't work well with low-latencybecause if a client just misses a playlist update,it'll take another target durationbefore it finally notices it.

And so for Low-Latency HLS,we introduced the notion of delivery directiveswhich are a way for the client to ask the serverto perform some kind of service for itby adding query parameters to its GET requests.

For Blocking Playlist Reload,clients can use a delivery directive to tell a server,"Hold onto this Playlist request until the Playlists you seecontains a segment that I haven't seen yet."Once that playlist updates with that segment,the server will unblock and send it to the client.

So let's take a look at how that works in detail.

First of all, Blocking Playlist Reloadsare optional so the server needs to indicatethat it supports them.

And it does that by adding a CAN-BLOCK-RELOAD attributeto its server control tag.

Next, a client will load a playlist for the first time.

It doesn't supply any query parametersbecause at this point it just wantswhatever's current on the server.

As soon as it gets the playlist,it will immediately turn around and issue a reload request.

And now, it will use the _HLS_msn delivery directiveto specify the first new segment that it hasn't seen yet.

If it's a low-latency playlist then it will also specifythe next partial segment that it expects to see.

The server will then hold on to that requestuntil it has a playlist that's new enough.

Now let's see how that looks graphically.

Here, we have an HLS client to the leftand a server to the right.

The client asks for a playlist that contains Partial Segment 2,for example.

The server doesn't have Partial Segment 2 yetso it blocks.

Eventually, Partial Segment 2 will appearand will get added to the playlist.

Now the server can unblock the client requestand send it the updated playlist as the response.

Let's take a look at an actual example.

We'll start with a regular playlist,not a low-latency one.

Here is a regular, live HLS Playlist.

The first thing to notice is that the serveris advertising that it supports Blocking Playlist Reloadin its server control tag.

Next, the media sequence number is 19 and that refers tothe first segment in the playlist which here is segmentA.

Now if you count four segments downall the way to the bottom to segmentE,you'll see that it has a Media Sequence Number of 23.

And that means that the next time a playlist is updatedwith a new segment,that new segment will be Media Sequence Number 24.

So to ask for that update, the client will usethe _HLS_msn=24 delivery directive.

When it receives this request,the server will block until the playlist is updatedand then it will return the newer version of the playlist.

And at the end, it now contains segmentF,also known a Media Sequence Number 24.

So that's the flow of Blocking Playlist Reloadfor regular segments.

Now let's see what happens for low-latency.

In this example,we'll see how the client asks for the next playlistwhen it contains partial segments as well.

So here we have a live low-latency playlist.

You can see that the segmentshave a target duration of 6 secondswhile the partial segments have a part target durationof 2 seconds.

At the end of the playlist are the first two partsof segment 7 part 0 and part 1.

Given that the last thing in this playlist right nowis Media Sequence 7 part 1, to get the next playlist,the client will need to ask for Media Sequence 7 part 2.

And so that request looks like this.

The server will hold onto it until playlist updates againand then send back this response.

And now we can see that there is a new partial segmentwhich has Media Sequence Number 7 part 2.

Now, you may be wondering if the client is always askingfor the next part of the current media sequence number,what happens at the end of the segment?Well let's go back to our earlier playlist.

Here, the next playlist request will be for segment 7 part 3.

Now the server will translate any request for a partthat goes beyond the end of the parent segmentinto a request for part 0 of the segment that follows it.

So in this case, the server will blockuntil it returns this playlist,where it now contains part 0 of Segment 8 at the end.

There are a few other exceptional casesto know about for Blocking Playlist Reload.

First, the media sequence number and part delivery directivesonly apply for live playlists.

That means they're ignored if the playlist has an ENDLIST tag.

Next, if a client asks for a particular playlist updateand the server already has it,it returns the latest playlist right away.

That's also true even if the playlist is newerthan what the client has asked for,if it's advanced ahead by a couple of partial segments.

And in fact, to take it to the greatest extreme,if the segment the client asks forhas already rolled out of the playlist completely,the server will still unblock immediatelyand return the current playlist.

The rule is that the origin always returnsthe current version of a playlistas long as it's new enough.

Finally, if the server has to wait too longfor the playlist to update --if it has to wait more than three target durations --it will return an error.

Now that should only happen if there's a serious problemwith the backend production.

Another interesting area to talk about is howBlocking Playlist Reload interacts with CDNsand other HTTP caches.

The good news here is that Blocking Playlist Reloadactually works a lot better with cacheseven than traditional live HLS.

A big reason for that is having a unique URLfor each individual Playlist update allows each requestto be cached independently.

So the update requests a response for msn=23,for example, can live in the same cachealongside the request and response for msn=24.

Now this has a couple of useful consequences.

First, a new request will effectively bust throughthe cache because it will present a combinationof query parameters that the cache has never seen before.

So the cache knows to send the request right alongto the origin.

Second, each response has a longer useful lifetimein the cache because it doesn't have to compete with itself.

You no longer have to expire every playlist responseat a half target durationthe way you do with regular live HLS Playlists.

And in fact, we recommend a lifetime of six target durationsfor successful playlist responses.

The other thing worth sayingis that with Blocking Playlist Reloadand other delivery directives, you have to configure your CDNto coalesce duplicate edge requestsinto a single request to the origin.

Because, when you have an active origin,you want to do everything you can to help reduce its load.

So to summarize Blocking Playlist Reload.

It's a new mechanism in HLS that allows clientsto discover new segmentsas soon as they become available on the server.

Clients request them by usingthe _HLS_ msn and _HLS_part delivery directives.

Blocking Playlists Reload works better with CDNsboth in a positive sense of enabling more cachingand also in a negative senseof explicitly busting that cache for new requests.

This helps out with regular live HLS streamsand it's required for low-latency streams.

We encourage you to adopt Blocking Playlist Reloadto improve the delivery of HLS to your users.

Thank you very much.

♪

## Code Samples

