# Wwdc2020 10232

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Adapt ad insertion to Low-Latency HLSFind out how to integrate advertising into your Low-Latency HLS streams through server-side ad insertion. We'll show you how to segment your ad content, and examine how ad insertion works with LL-HLS features such as Blocking Playlist Reload and Blocking Preload Hints.

For more information about Blocking Playlist Reload and Preload Hinting, watch "Reduce Latency with HLS Blocking Playlist Reload" and "Discover HLS Blocking Preload Hints."ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC20Discover HLS Blocking Preload HintsOptimize live streams with HLS Playlist Delta UpdatesReduce latency with HLS Blocking Playlist Reload

Find out how to integrate advertising into your Low-Latency HLS streams through server-side ad insertion. We'll show you how to segment your ad content, and examine how ad insertion works with LL-HLS features such as Blocking Playlist Reload and Blocking Preload Hints.

For more information about Blocking Playlist Reload and Preload Hinting, watch "Reduce Latency with HLS Blocking Playlist Reload" and "Discover HLS Blocking Preload Hints."

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Discover HLS Blocking Preload Hints

Optimize live streams with HLS Playlist Delta Updates

Reduce latency with HLS Blocking Playlist Reload

Search this video…♪Voiceover: Hello, and welcome to WWDC.Roger Pantos: My name is Roger Pantos,and today we are going to talk about inserting adsinto low-latency HLS.To set the stage for that,let's start with a quick review of how regular live HLS works.Usually in a live HLS,the server adds a new segment every target duration,and the client reloads that playlist every target durationto see what's changed.So, the timing model for the clientis defined entirely by the current playlistand the segments inside it.The first segment in the current playlistdefines the earliest seeakable point,and the end of the last segmentrepresents what's currently the live edge of the presentation.Now that's importantbecause clients use the position of that live edgeto make some essential decisionssuch as how close it is safe to play without stalling.So, let's take a look at playlists in a graphical way.We'll start with a playlist that has four six-second segments.Six seconds later, a new segment is added,and the playlist is updatedto roll the first segment out of the playlist.We're showing it here is graybecause it is no longer part of the live window.Now the end of segment five is the live edge.Next we'll add a new segment, and the process repeats.Now one consequence of thisis that if every segment is six seconds,then each segment has a six-second publishing delay.In other words, you have to wait for six secondsbefore any part of that segment becomes available for playback,even the first few frames.That's a long timeif you want to play really close to live.So, enter low-latency HLS and partial segments.Partial segments are like looking through a microscopeat the live edge of the presentation.The way it worksis that every regular segment at the live edge,called a parent segment,is accompanied by a series of shorter partial segments.And these offer the same media,just with a lower publishing latency.So in this case,that client can get the first media from segment fiveafter only two seconds instead of waiting for six seconds.Two seconds after that, it can get a little bit more,and then two seconds after that, the final part of segment fiveappears along with segment five itself.Now there's nothing magic about six secondsand two seconds here you can use any combination durations.Here we've looked at low-latency HLSand how it differs from regular live HLSfor delivering program content.Let's stick a pin in that for just a secondand go back to regular live HLS,so we can talk about ad insertion.Now there are a few different variations,but the basic ideais that you'll start with a source feed for your programthat includes markers for where the ads can be inserted.Now these markers are oftennot on regular segment boundaries,so you're packager may need to add a short segment,so the ad can start exactly on a segment boundary.When it's time to pick an ad, you're decisioning enginewill choose one out of your available inventory,and then your packager will begin replacing program segmentswith the ad segments,separating them with discontinuity tags.The packager will then continue to spool out ad segmentsone per target durationuntil it reaches the end of the ad,and then it goes back to regular program segments.So to go back to our diagram, it's going to look like this:we start with these three program segments in blue.When an ad comes up,we place one last short-program segmentto align with the start of the ad boundary.Then we wait six seconds,and then we lay down the first ad segment.Then, six seconds after that, we lay down a second ad segment.At the end of the ad,it might not end exactly on a segment boundary,so we might have, again, a short segment --this time, a short ad segment --and then we wait six seconds more,and then we lay down the first program segment after the ad.This is ad insertion for regular live HLS.For low-latency HLS, you'll do much of the same thingbut with program segments added to the mix.So here we have the same stream,but for low latency it has partial segments as well.It updates faster,so after two seconds, you get another partial segmentand then you'll get a short partial segmentto line up to the ad boundary along with the parent segment.At this point we'll start spooling out the ad.The packager needs to maintainthe same low-latency timing model,which means every two seconds,it will add a partial segment from the ad.So then two seconds after that, we'll get another,and two seconds after that, we'll get the last onealong with the parent segment from the ad.This then continues through the next ad segment,and then the ad ends on a short partial segmentto line up with the ad boundaryjust like the partial segments did.After that, the program partial segmentsand parent segments resume, and you're back to the program.So inserting ads into low latency HLSis very similar to doing it with regular live HLS.The biggest differenceis that before ads are spooled out as regular segmentsthey get doled out as partial segments first,so the playlist can update more frequently at the live edgeand then the parents segments follow.The overall segmentation stays the samein terms of where the ad boundaries are,where the discontinuities are placed,where key rotation happens, et cetera.And just as when you're serving program content,the origin has to implement blocking playlist reloadfor ads as well to preserve the low-latency timing model.We've got a separate video about blocking playlist reloadif you'd like to learn more about it.It's part of the new HLS Origin API.And speaking of the Origin API,another consideration for ad delivery is preload hinting.Preload hinting is a technique used by low-latency HLSto lower segment delivery time.We also have a video talking about that this year.But the basic requirement is that every playlisthas to contain the URL of the next partial segmentthat we expect to have show up in the playlist,carried in a preload hint tag.Ad content must be hinted just like program content,but it's a little easier to implement for adsbecause unlike programmed contentwhere the server has to blockuntil each partial segment has been completely produced,with prerecorded content, we don't have to block,and so you can serve it up from a regular origin.Let's take a look at an exampleof what preload hinting looks like for an ad.Here's a low-latency playlist, and segment 7is the last thing that's currently available.But we also have a couple of preload hint tags at the end.Because we're transitioning to an ad,the first one tells us that the client should loada new media initialization section.The second one gives us the URLfor the first partial segment of the ad.Two seconds later,when the live edge of the presentation reaches the ad,the playlist will update to look like this.Now we can see that there is a discontinuityfollowing the program segment 7,followed by a map tag for the ad,followed by the first partial segment of the ad.The preload hint tag has been updatedto hit the second partial segment of the ad,which we expect will show up as its own part tagtwo seconds from now when it goes live.Then we'll hit the third partial segment,and so on.Like clockwork, right? Well, not always.One phenomena you might be familiar withis called early return.Usually you see thiswhen something really exciting happens in a live broadcastduring an ad breakand the producer wants to cut back to the program right awayso you don't miss it.Just like in regular live HLS, you'll stop serving ad segmentsbefore you get to the end of the ad.If you've got an agile packager, you might be able to end itat the last published partial segment,in which case you would conjure up a short parent segmentthat ends at the same place.Then, you'd signal a discontinuityand resume feeding program segments.In this case, a hint you served earlier,before you knew you were going to return early,might need to change.So just set it to the next program partial segment instead.The client will switch back to loading program content,and you'll have your early return.So, to wrap up our discussionof inserting ads into low-latency HLS,it's pretty similar to inserting ads in regular live HLS,but with one difference:ads get spooled out more frequently as partial segments.Your packager does need to implementblocking playlist reloadfor both ads and program content.And it has to supply preload hints for both as well.Although your ad origindoes not need to enforce the blocking symanticsbecause ads themselves are prerecorded.We know that for many of you, ads are essential partof your low-latency content delivery strategy.So we hope that what we've covered herehelps you to deliver them with low-latency HLS.Thank you.♪

♪Voiceover: Hello, and welcome to WWDC.

Roger Pantos: My name is Roger Pantos,and today we are going to talk about inserting adsinto low-latency HLS.

To set the stage for that,let's start with a quick review of how regular live HLS works.

Usually in a live HLS,the server adds a new segment every target duration,and the client reloads that playlist every target durationto see what's changed.

So, the timing model for the clientis defined entirely by the current playlistand the segments inside it.

The first segment in the current playlistdefines the earliest seeakable point,and the end of the last segmentrepresents what's currently the live edge of the presentation.

Now that's importantbecause clients use the position of that live edgeto make some essential decisionssuch as how close it is safe to play without stalling.

So, let's take a look at playlists in a graphical way.

We'll start with a playlist that has four six-second segments.

Six seconds later, a new segment is added,and the playlist is updatedto roll the first segment out of the playlist.

We're showing it here is graybecause it is no longer part of the live window.

Now the end of segment five is the live edge.

Next we'll add a new segment, and the process repeats.

Now one consequence of thisis that if every segment is six seconds,then each segment has a six-second publishing delay.

In other words, you have to wait for six secondsbefore any part of that segment becomes available for playback,even the first few frames.

That's a long timeif you want to play really close to live.

So, enter low-latency HLS and partial segments.

Partial segments are like looking through a microscopeat the live edge of the presentation.

The way it worksis that every regular segment at the live edge,called a parent segment,is accompanied by a series of shorter partial segments.

And these offer the same media,just with a lower publishing latency.

So in this case,that client can get the first media from segment fiveafter only two seconds instead of waiting for six seconds.

Two seconds after that, it can get a little bit more,and then two seconds after that, the final part of segment fiveappears along with segment five itself.

Now there's nothing magic about six secondsand two seconds here you can use any combination durations.

Here we've looked at low-latency HLSand how it differs from regular live HLSfor delivering program content.

Let's stick a pin in that for just a secondand go back to regular live HLS,so we can talk about ad insertion.

Now there are a few different variations,but the basic ideais that you'll start with a source feed for your programthat includes markers for where the ads can be inserted.

Now these markers are oftennot on regular segment boundaries,so you're packager may need to add a short segment,so the ad can start exactly on a segment boundary.

When it's time to pick an ad, you're decisioning enginewill choose one out of your available inventory,and then your packager will begin replacing program segmentswith the ad segments,separating them with discontinuity tags.

The packager will then continue to spool out ad segmentsone per target durationuntil it reaches the end of the ad,and then it goes back to regular program segments.

So to go back to our diagram, it's going to look like this:we start with these three program segments in blue.

When an ad comes up,we place one last short-program segmentto align with the start of the ad boundary.

Then we wait six seconds,and then we lay down the first ad segment.

Then, six seconds after that, we lay down a second ad segment.

At the end of the ad,it might not end exactly on a segment boundary,so we might have, again, a short segment --this time, a short ad segment --and then we wait six seconds more,and then we lay down the first program segment after the ad.

This is ad insertion for regular live HLS.

For low-latency HLS, you'll do much of the same thingbut with program segments added to the mix.

So here we have the same stream,but for low latency it has partial segments as well.

It updates faster,so after two seconds, you get another partial segmentand then you'll get a short partial segmentto line up to the ad boundary along with the parent segment.

At this point we'll start spooling out the ad.

The packager needs to maintainthe same low-latency timing model,which means every two seconds,it will add a partial segment from the ad.

So then two seconds after that, we'll get another,and two seconds after that, we'll get the last onealong with the parent segment from the ad.

This then continues through the next ad segment,and then the ad ends on a short partial segmentto line up with the ad boundaryjust like the partial segments did.

After that, the program partial segmentsand parent segments resume, and you're back to the program.

So inserting ads into low latency HLSis very similar to doing it with regular live HLS.

The biggest differenceis that before ads are spooled out as regular segmentsthey get doled out as partial segments first,so the playlist can update more frequently at the live edgeand then the parents segments follow.

The overall segmentation stays the samein terms of where the ad boundaries are,where the discontinuities are placed,where key rotation happens, et cetera.

And just as when you're serving program content,the origin has to implement blocking playlist reloadfor ads as well to preserve the low-latency timing model.

We've got a separate video about blocking playlist reloadif you'd like to learn more about it.

It's part of the new HLS Origin API.

And speaking of the Origin API,another consideration for ad delivery is preload hinting.

Preload hinting is a technique used by low-latency HLSto lower segment delivery time.

We also have a video talking about that this year.

But the basic requirement is that every playlisthas to contain the URL of the next partial segmentthat we expect to have show up in the playlist,carried in a preload hint tag.

Ad content must be hinted just like program content,but it's a little easier to implement for adsbecause unlike programmed contentwhere the server has to blockuntil each partial segment has been completely produced,with prerecorded content, we don't have to block,and so you can serve it up from a regular origin.

Let's take a look at an exampleof what preload hinting looks like for an ad.

Here's a low-latency playlist, and segment 7is the last thing that's currently available.

But we also have a couple of preload hint tags at the end.

Because we're transitioning to an ad,the first one tells us that the client should loada new media initialization section.

The second one gives us the URLfor the first partial segment of the ad.

Two seconds later,when the live edge of the presentation reaches the ad,the playlist will update to look like this.

Now we can see that there is a discontinuityfollowing the program segment 7,followed by a map tag for the ad,followed by the first partial segment of the ad.

The preload hint tag has been updatedto hit the second partial segment of the ad,which we expect will show up as its own part tagtwo seconds from now when it goes live.

Then we'll hit the third partial segment,and so on.

Like clockwork, right? Well, not always.

One phenomena you might be familiar withis called early return.

Usually you see thiswhen something really exciting happens in a live broadcastduring an ad breakand the producer wants to cut back to the program right awayso you don't miss it.

Just like in regular live HLS, you'll stop serving ad segmentsbefore you get to the end of the ad.

If you've got an agile packager, you might be able to end itat the last published partial segment,in which case you would conjure up a short parent segmentthat ends at the same place.

Then, you'd signal a discontinuityand resume feeding program segments.

In this case, a hint you served earlier,before you knew you were going to return early,might need to change.

So just set it to the next program partial segment instead.

The client will switch back to loading program content,and you'll have your early return.

So, to wrap up our discussionof inserting ads into low-latency HLS,it's pretty similar to inserting ads in regular live HLS,but with one difference:ads get spooled out more frequently as partial segments.

Your packager does need to implementblocking playlist reloadfor both ads and program content.

And it has to supply preload hints for both as well.

Although your ad origindoes not need to enforce the blocking symanticsbecause ads themselves are prerecorded.

We know that for many of you, ads are essential partof your low-latency content delivery strategy.

So we hope that what we've covered herehelps you to deliver them with low-latency HLS.

Thank you.

♪

## Code Samples

