# Wwdc2020 10649

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Add custom views and modifiers to the Xcode LibraryThe Xcode Library is an easy way for you to discover available SwiftUI views and drag and drop them to the Xcode Previews canvas, enabling rich visual editing of your app. We'll show you how to extend the content of the Xcode Library with your own views and modifiers, optimizing for reusability and discoverability within your app or Swift packages.

For more on Xcode Previews, check out "Structure your app for SwiftUI previews", and "Visually edit SwiftUI views".ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC20Structure your app for SwiftUI previewsVisually edit SwiftUI views

The Xcode Library is an easy way for you to discover available SwiftUI views and drag and drop them to the Xcode Previews canvas, enabling rich visual editing of your app. We'll show you how to extend the content of the Xcode Library with your own views and modifiers, optimizing for reusability and discoverability within your app or Swift packages.

For more on Xcode Previews, check out "Structure your app for SwiftUI previews", and "Visually edit SwiftUI views".

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Structure your app for SwiftUI previews

Visually edit SwiftUI views

Search this video…♪Hello and welcome to WWDC.Anton Vladimirov: Hello, and welcome to WWDC.My name is Anton,and in this session we're going to take some timeto talk about your SwiftUI views and modifiers inside Xcode.Since the very beginning, Xcode Previewswas built to put your content front and center.For example, your views are previewablewithout doing any extra work, and most views and modifiersare inspectable right out of the box as well.In Xcode 12, we are taking a step furtherby letting you add your SwiftUI views and modifiersto the Xcode library.Let's take a step back and talk about some benefitsof the Xcode library.First, discoverability.As your code base grows,it can become hard for the users of your codeto know exactly what the key parts of your API are.The library is a place where developers lookto discover available visual content,and by placing your most importantand most reusable views there, you make them easier to find.But discoverability is just the beginning.Since each asset in the library comes in the compilable form,it can serve as an excellent wayof educating the users of your codeabout how any particular view or modifierwas intended to be used with a clear examplethat can often serve as an excellent starting point.And finally, every asset in the librarycan be dragged and dropped into the canvas,and inserting views and modifiers from the libraryallows Xcode previews to continue rendering,enabling rich visual editing for your content.So now, let's look at what you need to doto expose your content in the library.And this is where the library takes a pagefrom Xcode preview's playbook.Since the view or the modifier you're adding to the libraryis defined in Swift code,the most natural place to define how to expose it in the libraryis also in Swift code,right next to the view or the modifier itself.The big advantage of doing thatis that the compiler can help us ensure that the library itemsremain functional as your API changes.To extend the Xcode library, we need to declare a new typethat conforms to the LibraryContentProvider protocol.This protocol has two requirements:a views property, which you can useto extend the view's Xcode library;and the modifiers function, which you can useto extend the modifiers Xcode library.There are some differences between the twowhich we will discuss in a moment.But for now, notice that both of themreturn an array of LibraryItems.Let's look at how to create a LibraryItem.The minimum amount of data that Xcode needsto create a LibraryItemis a completion that will get insertedwhen the user picks that item from the library.But you can also optionally specify additional informationsuch as that library item's visibility,a more descriptive title for the item,or its category.There's a lot to unpack here.And the best way to discover this API is with a demo.So let's take a look.So I am here in the Fruta appthat my team has been working on for a while.This is an app that allows the user to exploredifferent kinds of smoothies.And in particular, I'm looking at a SmoothieRowViewwhich is a view designed to showcasea particular smoothie with information such as its title,its ingredients, its image, and so on.This view is used in a couple of places in our app,and so I'd like to add it to the libraryto make the reuse easier, and I'm going to do that now.I'm going to scroll to the bottom of this fileand add a new typethat conforms to the LibraryContentProvider protocol.This type can be named anythingbut for the purposes of this demo,I'm going to call it LibraryContent.Since what I'm adding is a view,I'm going to add a views property.And now I need to add a LibraryItem.To finish completing the LibraryItem,I need to provide a completion that represents my view.Since what I'm adding is a SmoothieRowView,I'm just going to instantiate a SmoothieRowView here.I'm going to provide some default data herefor my smoothie.I'm going to pick out of the list of preexisting ones.And I like lemonberry,so I'm just going to pick lemonberry here.And that's really all we needto create a LibraryItem for this view.I'm ready to use it.I'm going to switch to the SmoothieList.As the name implies, this is just a viewthat takes an array of smoothiesand shows them in a navigable list.It's empty right now, as you can see from the preview.I'm going to populate it with my SmoothieRowView.To do that, I'm going to click on the library iconin the toolbar, which is a little plus,and I'm going to search for smoothie.As you can see,Xcode already discovered my LibraryItemand populated the library with it.It even gave it a category, Fruta,which matches the name of my project.This makes local items from my project easier to find.It also gave it a rich title, Smoothie Row View,which is based on the completion I provided.So now I can just drag this library item right into my codeand my preview will update automaticallyto reflect the change that I just made.Notice that all of the rows in this list right noware saying "Lemonberry," and it's because Xcode insertedexactly what I specified with a lemonberry placeholder.But there's a slight difference here.The argument for the SmoothieRowView here,lemonberry, that I provided, is tokenized,and that's because LibraryItems are meant to be a starting pointthat can be customized based on the insertion contextfor the view that you're inserting.So I'm going to select the lemonberry token here,and I'm going to replace it with the data from the list,in this case, just smoothie.So the preview updates to show me the content of the listwith the different smoothies provided from its preview.That's exactly what I want.So now let's talk about customization optionsfor these LibraryItems.And for that, I'm going to go backto the LibraryContent struct that I'm working on.First, let's talk about the category.Now the project category is very useful for projectsthat are small and add a small number of items,such as this demo.But for a larger project that adds a lot of items,this category will become pretty unwieldy pretty quickly.If you've ever used SwiftUI's Xcode library,you notice that SwiftUI deals with thatby adding categories that correspond to functionalitysuch as controls, layout, effects, and so on.We can do the same for our LibraryItems as well.I'm going to go back to my code,and I'm going to add an argument here to specify the category.And I'm going to pick controlbecause this view is most like control;it provides data and allows me to interact with it.Now if I bring up the library with a Command-Shift-L shortcutand search for smoothie,you will see that the category of this LibraryItem was updated.It's still prepended with Fruta,so it's still easy for me to find the local ones.But now it's clearly indicated that my view is a control.The icon for the LibraryItem changed as well,to indicate that it's a control with the color blue.So views don't have to correspond to LibraryItemsone-to-one.It is perfectly reasonable to create multiple LibraryItemsrepresenting the same view in different configurations.In this particular case,SmoothieRowView has another argumentthat lets me specify whether I want to seelocal popularity of a particular smoothie.I'm going to add a LibraryItem for that configuration as well.I'm going to go back to my views propertyand add another LibraryItem.And it also creates a SmoothieRowView,but now it also uses showNearbyPopularity flagand sets its default to true.If I bring up my library again, I can see thatmy LibraryItem got added just like I would expect,but there's a problem.It's really hard for me to tell which LibraryItemrepresents which instantiation.I can fix that by adding another argument tothis LibraryItem instantiation that specifies its title.In this case, I'm going to say,"Smoothie Row View With Popularity."And while I'm here, I can also fix its categoryto match the other SmoothieRowView as well.Now if I bring up the library,I can see that my LibraryItem got updated,and it's much easier for me to tell which one is which.So that's a quick introin how to add a view to the Xcode library.But what about modifiers?Turns out the idea is very similarbut has a little bit of a detail.Let me set the stage here for a second.As I audited my code,I found out that a lot of times when we use an image,we also use these three modifiers in a row:resizable, aspectRatio, and frame.And the result of these modifiersis to resize an image to a particular sizewhile keeping its aspect ratio.We use it enough that I actually separated this functionalityinto its own modifier.I created an extension on Image,and I created a function called resizedtoFill,which takes the width and height.And this function just takes the imageand applies the three modifiers to it and returns the result.I'd like to add resizedToFill to the modifiers library.To do that, I'm going to implement the second requirementof the LibraryContentProvider protocol,the modifiers function.And this is very similar to the views property,but it requires a base argument.When figuring out what the completionfor the LibraryItem should be,Xcode needs a way to be able to tellwhich part of the completion is the modifierand which part is the thing it modifies.And the base is the way for us to communicate that.So since my modifier is declared on Image,I'm going to set this type to Image.And then I'm going to add my LibraryItem.Its completion is base with resizedToFill called on it.And I just need to populate this with sample data.And just like that, my modifier item is ready to be used.I'm going to scroll back to my imageand delete the three modifiers I'm trying to replace.I'm going to bring up the library again,but this time I'm going to switch to the modifiers taband search for resized.And here's my new modifier.I can use it right now by hitting Return,and what gets inserted is exactly what I would expect.Xcode stripped the base partand just inserted the modifier itselfand tokenized the arguments so I can customize them herewith size, and size, like it was before.And just like that, I used my modifier from the library.You may have noticed that at no point during this demo,we had to build or run our project to populate the library.This is because Xcode can harvest the library definitionsby simply scanning your source for LibraryContentProvidersand parsing their declarations.There are several advantages to this.First, it means that if your projectis not in a runnable state,you can still contribute content to the librarywhich is really handywhen you're in the middle of that UI rework.Your project doesn't run,but you still want the content of the library.It also means that there's no additionalbuild configuration required to enable this feature.And since LibraryContentProvider code is never actually executed,the compiler will strip itwhen your project is built for distribution.So this approach works really well forbuilding a library of content for your workspace or project.But since Xcode scans all of the source filesin your workspace for library content,including any dependencies you have,it actually works really well with Swift packages as well.In our project, we actually have a dependencyon the Nutrition Facts Swift package,which provides facilitiesfor visualizing nutritional information.I'm looking for a view that will allow meto display caloric information of a smoothie in my row view.I can use the library to explore the contentof Nutrition Facts package for a view I want.I'm going to bring up the library again,but this time I'm going to switch back to the views taband scroll down until I find the Nutrition Facts category.This is a category that Xcode createdfor the content of the Nutrition Facts Swift package.I can see that there's a CalorieCountView herewhich sounds like exactly what I want.I'm going to hit Return to insert it,and my preview will updateto reflect the change that I just made.This basically looks exactly like what I want,so all I need to do now is to populate this viewwith the data from my model.Fortunately, I already have nutrition facts,so I can just type smoothie.nutritionFact hereand have my view updated.And just like that,I was able to discover and use content from a Swift packagewithout ever opening its source code.To summarize, in this session we've learnedhow to extend the Xcode library by creating a typethat conforms to the LibraryContentProvider protocol,implementing one or both of its requirements,and returning instances of LibraryItemthat correspond to the individual items.Thank you,
and have a great WWDC.

♪Hello and welcome to WWDC.

Anton Vladimirov: Hello, and welcome to WWDC.

My name is Anton,and in this session we're going to take some timeto talk about your SwiftUI views and modifiers inside Xcode.

Since the very beginning, Xcode Previewswas built to put your content front and center.

For example, your views are previewablewithout doing any extra work, and most views and modifiersare inspectable right out of the box as well.

In Xcode 12, we are taking a step furtherby letting you add your SwiftUI views and modifiersto the Xcode library.

Let's take a step back and talk about some benefitsof the Xcode library.

First, discoverability.

As your code base grows,it can become hard for the users of your codeto know exactly what the key parts of your API are.

The library is a place where developers lookto discover available visual content,and by placing your most importantand most reusable views there, you make them easier to find.

But discoverability is just the beginning.

Since each asset in the library comes in the compilable form,it can serve as an excellent wayof educating the users of your codeabout how any particular view or modifierwas intended to be used with a clear examplethat can often serve as an excellent starting point.

And finally, every asset in the librarycan be dragged and dropped into the canvas,and inserting views and modifiers from the libraryallows Xcode previews to continue rendering,enabling rich visual editing for your content.

So now, let's look at what you need to doto expose your content in the library.

And this is where the library takes a pagefrom Xcode preview's playbook.

Since the view or the modifier you're adding to the libraryis defined in Swift code,the most natural place to define how to expose it in the libraryis also in Swift code,right next to the view or the modifier itself.

The big advantage of doing thatis that the compiler can help us ensure that the library itemsremain functional as your API changes.

To extend the Xcode library, we need to declare a new typethat conforms to the LibraryContentProvider protocol.

This protocol has two requirements:a views property, which you can useto extend the view's Xcode library;and the modifiers function, which you can useto extend the modifiers Xcode library.

There are some differences between the twowhich we will discuss in a moment.

But for now, notice that both of themreturn an array of LibraryItems.

Let's look at how to create a LibraryItem.

The minimum amount of data that Xcode needsto create a LibraryItemis a completion that will get insertedwhen the user picks that item from the library.

But you can also optionally specify additional informationsuch as that library item's visibility,a more descriptive title for the item,or its category.

There's a lot to unpack here.

And the best way to discover this API is with a demo.

So let's take a look.

So I am here in the Fruta appthat my team has been working on for a while.

This is an app that allows the user to exploredifferent kinds of smoothies.

And in particular, I'm looking at a SmoothieRowViewwhich is a view designed to showcasea particular smoothie with information such as its title,its ingredients, its image, and so on.

This view is used in a couple of places in our app,and so I'd like to add it to the libraryto make the reuse easier, and I'm going to do that now.

I'm going to scroll to the bottom of this fileand add a new typethat conforms to the LibraryContentProvider protocol.

This type can be named anythingbut for the purposes of this demo,I'm going to call it LibraryContent.

Since what I'm adding is a view,I'm going to add a views property.

And now I need to add a LibraryItem.

To finish completing the LibraryItem,I need to provide a completion that represents my view.

Since what I'm adding is a SmoothieRowView,I'm just going to instantiate a SmoothieRowView here.

I'm going to provide some default data herefor my smoothie.

I'm going to pick out of the list of preexisting ones.

And I like lemonberry,so I'm just going to pick lemonberry here.

And that's really all we needto create a LibraryItem for this view.

I'm ready to use it.

I'm going to switch to the SmoothieList.

As the name implies, this is just a viewthat takes an array of smoothiesand shows them in a navigable list.

It's empty right now, as you can see from the preview.

I'm going to populate it with my SmoothieRowView.

To do that, I'm going to click on the library iconin the toolbar, which is a little plus,and I'm going to search for smoothie.

As you can see,Xcode already discovered my LibraryItemand populated the library with it.

It even gave it a category, Fruta,which matches the name of my project.

This makes local items from my project easier to find.

It also gave it a rich title, Smoothie Row View,which is based on the completion I provided.

So now I can just drag this library item right into my codeand my preview will update automaticallyto reflect the change that I just made.

Notice that all of the rows in this list right noware saying "Lemonberry," and it's because Xcode insertedexactly what I specified with a lemonberry placeholder.

But there's a slight difference here.

The argument for the SmoothieRowView here,lemonberry, that I provided, is tokenized,and that's because LibraryItems are meant to be a starting pointthat can be customized based on the insertion contextfor the view that you're inserting.

So I'm going to select the lemonberry token here,and I'm going to replace it with the data from the list,in this case, just smoothie.

So the preview updates to show me the content of the listwith the different smoothies provided from its preview.

That's exactly what I want.

So now let's talk about customization optionsfor these LibraryItems.

And for that, I'm going to go backto the LibraryContent struct that I'm working on.

First, let's talk about the category.

Now the project category is very useful for projectsthat are small and add a small number of items,such as this demo.

But for a larger project that adds a lot of items,this category will become pretty unwieldy pretty quickly.

If you've ever used SwiftUI's Xcode library,you notice that SwiftUI deals with thatby adding categories that correspond to functionalitysuch as controls, layout, effects, and so on.

We can do the same for our LibraryItems as well.

I'm going to go back to my code,and I'm going to add an argument here to specify the category.

And I'm going to pick controlbecause this view is most like control;it provides data and allows me to interact with it.

Now if I bring up the library with a Command-Shift-L shortcutand search for smoothie,you will see that the category of this LibraryItem was updated.

It's still prepended with Fruta,so it's still easy for me to find the local ones.

But now it's clearly indicated that my view is a control.

The icon for the LibraryItem changed as well,to indicate that it's a control with the color blue.

So views don't have to correspond to LibraryItemsone-to-one.

It is perfectly reasonable to create multiple LibraryItemsrepresenting the same view in different configurations.

In this particular case,SmoothieRowView has another argumentthat lets me specify whether I want to seelocal popularity of a particular smoothie.

I'm going to add a LibraryItem for that configuration as well.

I'm going to go back to my views propertyand add another LibraryItem.

And it also creates a SmoothieRowView,but now it also uses showNearbyPopularity flagand sets its default to true.

If I bring up my library again, I can see thatmy LibraryItem got added just like I would expect,but there's a problem.

It's really hard for me to tell which LibraryItemrepresents which instantiation.

I can fix that by adding another argument tothis LibraryItem instantiation that specifies its title.

In this case, I'm going to say,"Smoothie Row View With Popularity."And while I'm here, I can also fix its categoryto match the other SmoothieRowView as well.

Now if I bring up the library,I can see that my LibraryItem got updated,and it's much easier for me to tell which one is which.

So that's a quick introin how to add a view to the Xcode library.

But what about modifiers?Turns out the idea is very similarbut has a little bit of a detail.

Let me set the stage here for a second.

As I audited my code,I found out that a lot of times when we use an image,we also use these three modifiers in a row:resizable, aspectRatio, and frame.

And the result of these modifiersis to resize an image to a particular sizewhile keeping its aspect ratio.

We use it enough that I actually separated this functionalityinto its own modifier.

I created an extension on Image,and I created a function called resizedtoFill,which takes the width and height.

And this function just takes the imageand applies the three modifiers to it and returns the result.

I'd like to add resizedToFill to the modifiers library.

To do that, I'm going to implement the second requirementof the LibraryContentProvider protocol,the modifiers function.

And this is very similar to the views property,but it requires a base argument.

When figuring out what the completionfor the LibraryItem should be,Xcode needs a way to be able to tellwhich part of the completion is the modifierand which part is the thing it modifies.

And the base is the way for us to communicate that.

So since my modifier is declared on Image,I'm going to set this type to Image.

And then I'm going to add my LibraryItem.

Its completion is base with resizedToFill called on it.

And I just need to populate this with sample data.

And just like that, my modifier item is ready to be used.

I'm going to scroll back to my imageand delete the three modifiers I'm trying to replace.

I'm going to bring up the library again,but this time I'm going to switch to the modifiers taband search for resized.

And here's my new modifier.

I can use it right now by hitting Return,and what gets inserted is exactly what I would expect.

Xcode stripped the base partand just inserted the modifier itselfand tokenized the arguments so I can customize them herewith size, and size, like it was before.

And just like that, I used my modifier from the library.

You may have noticed that at no point during this demo,we had to build or run our project to populate the library.

This is because Xcode can harvest the library definitionsby simply scanning your source for LibraryContentProvidersand parsing their declarations.

There are several advantages to this.

First, it means that if your projectis not in a runnable state,you can still contribute content to the librarywhich is really handywhen you're in the middle of that UI rework.

Your project doesn't run,but you still want the content of the library.

It also means that there's no additionalbuild configuration required to enable this feature.

And since LibraryContentProvider code is never actually executed,the compiler will strip itwhen your project is built for distribution.

So this approach works really well forbuilding a library of content for your workspace or project.

But since Xcode scans all of the source filesin your workspace for library content,including any dependencies you have,it actually works really well with Swift packages as well.

In our project, we actually have a dependencyon the Nutrition Facts Swift package,which provides facilitiesfor visualizing nutritional information.

I'm looking for a view that will allow meto display caloric information of a smoothie in my row view.

I can use the library to explore the contentof Nutrition Facts package for a view I want.

I'm going to bring up the library again,but this time I'm going to switch back to the views taband scroll down until I find the Nutrition Facts category.

This is a category that Xcode createdfor the content of the Nutrition Facts Swift package.

I can see that there's a CalorieCountView herewhich sounds like exactly what I want.

I'm going to hit Return to insert it,and my preview will updateto reflect the change that I just made.

This basically looks exactly like what I want,so all I need to do now is to populate this viewwith the data from my model.

Fortunately, I already have nutrition facts,so I can just type smoothie.nutritionFact hereand have my view updated.

And just like that,I was able to discover and use content from a Swift packagewithout ever opening its source code.

To summarize, in this session we've learnedhow to extend the Xcode library by creating a typethat conforms to the LibraryContentProvider protocol,implementing one or both of its requirements,and returning instances of LibraryItemthat correspond to the individual items.

Thank you,
and have a great WWDC.

1:57 -LibraryContentProvider

2:32 -LibraryItem

3:22 -LibraryContent

8:57 -Image extension

9:17 -Modifiers

## Code Samples

```swift
public
 
protocol
 
LibraryContentProvider
 
{
  
@LibraryContentBuilder

  
var
 views: [
LibraryItem
] { 
get
 }

  
@LibraryContentBuilder

  
public
 
func
 
modifiers
(
base
: 
ModifierBase
)
 -> [
LibraryItem
]
}
```

```swift
LibraryItem
(
  
SmoothieRowView
(smoothie: .lemonberry),
  visible: 
true
,
  title: 
"Smoothie Row View"
,
  category: .control
)
```

```swift
struct
 
LibraryContent
: 
LibraryContentProvider
 
{
    
@LibraryContentBuilder

    
var
 views: [
LibraryItem
] {
        
LibraryItem
(
            
SmoothieRowView
(smoothie: .lemonberry),
            category: .control
        )
        
        
LibraryItem
(
            
SmoothieRowView
(smoothie: .lemonberry, showNearbyPopularity: 
true
),
            title: 
"Smoothie Row View With Popularity"
,
            category: .control
        )
    }
}
```

```swift
extension
 
Image
 
{
    
func
 
resizedToFill
(
width
: 
CGFloat
, 
height
: 
CGFloat
)
 -> 
some
 
View
 {
        
return
 
self

            .resizable()
            .aspectRatio(contentMode: .fill)
            .frame(width: width, height: height)
    }
}
```

```swift
@LibraryContentBuilder

    
func
 
modifiers
(
base
: 
Image
)
 -> [
LibraryItem
] {
        
LibraryItem
(
            base.resizedToFill(width: 
100.0
, height: 
100.0
)
        )
    }
```

