# Wwdc2020 10641

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Handle the Limited Photos Library in your appAccess the photos and videos you need for your app while preserving privacy. With the new Limited Photos Library feature, people can directly control which photos and videos an app can access to protect their private content. We'll explore how this feature may affect your app, and take you through alternatives like PHPicker.

Check out “Meet the New Photos Picker” to learn more about PHPicker and how this this fully private picker can help you avoid requiring full Photos Library access in your app.ResourcesPhotoKitHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC23Create a more responsive camera experienceWWDC21Capture and process ProRAW imagesImprove access to Photos in your appWWDC20Build trust through better privacyMeet the new Photos picker

Access the photos and videos you need for your app while preserving privacy. With the new Limited Photos Library feature, people can directly control which photos and videos an app can access to protect their private content. We'll explore how this feature may affect your app, and take you through alternatives like PHPicker.

Check out “Meet the New Photos Picker” to learn more about PHPicker and how this this fully private picker can help you avoid requiring full Photos Library access in your app.

PhotoKit

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Create a more responsive camera experience

Capture and process ProRAW images

Improve access to Photos in your app

Build trust through better privacy

Meet the new Photos picker

Search this video…Hello and welcome to WWDC.Hello and welcome to the session on handling the new Limited Photos Library.My name's Matt Dickoff and together with my colleague Adam Swift we'llbe walking you through this new PhotoKit feature that allows users to bettercontrol the access that apps have to their photos library. We'll startwith a feature overview so you can familiarize yourself with what thislooks like in iOS 14. Then we'll cover what new APIs are availableto determine if your app has been put into this mode. And finally we'lldiscuss some UI changes that you might need to make in your app. So firstlet's go over what limited photo library means. As a reference here's whatfull photos library access looks like to your app. In this scenario your apphas access to nearly all of the assets in the user's photo library throughPhotoKit APIs. Your app can make photo requests to either write or read fromthe database. In limited mode we introduced this concept of the users limitedlibrary selection. You can think of this as a filter for the PhotoKit APIsthat you call. You will only be able to fetch assets and resources relatedto what the user has chosen for you to have access to. When a user modifiestheir selection your app will automatically be notified so that it can updateits UI to reflect the user's actions. It's important to note that limitedphoto library access will affect all apps that use photo kit. Even theapps you've already shipped will be able to be put into this mode in iOS 14.To demonstrate this let's look at an example app. This demo willshow what a user will see when using a third party app that hasn't adoptedany new APIs or functionality. Upon first launch of a photos applicationthe user will often be faced with a prompt asking them to grant the app accessto their photo library. The user now has an additional option which says"Select Photos." After selecting this this, the user is presented with the limitedlibrary management UI. This is allowing the user to individually selectwhat photos or videos the app will have access to via PhotoKit. Now let's selectsome photos. After tapping done the app is back in the foreground. As youcan see the app is only able to fetch the assets selected by the user.The app is still able to see photo metadata such as whether it was favorited,however this is limited to the user's selection. So if we turn the favoriteson for this we can see it's only the selected assets. Now you may be wonderinghow a user would be able to modify this selection of photos for this app.The first way is by going to settings, where alongside the option to changethe overall access level this app has, the user can manage their selection.So if I add a new photo and go back to our app, you'll see that it refreshedits view of the library.The second way is specific to apps that haven't made any changes to accommodatethis new mode. For these apps, like this one here, once per app lifecyclewhen they first fetch assets via PhotoKit the user will be promptedto either keep their current selection or modify it. Let me show you whatthat looks like. This allows a user to modify the selection within allapps without app adoption. Later on in the presentation I will show younew APIs that you can adopt which will allow you to take control over whenand where this management UI is presented from as well as suppressingthat prompt that comes up the first time your app calls PhotoKit APIsafter launch. Before we dive into the technical details, I want to firsttalk about why we built this feature. The primary motivation was to giveusers more control over their data. Over the years we've seen personalphoto libraries grow from tends to hundreds of thousands of photos andvideos. In nearly all cases, users do not want to give third parties accessto their entire library. Given this big push for user control this is agreat year to take a step back and ask yourself if your app even needsto ask the user for access to their photo library at all. For most appsthe answer is no. Today users see this prompt way more often than theyreally need to. Many of you don't need to request this level of accessand could provide a simpler and better experience for your users without it. Toaccentuate this point. Let's look at some features that can easily be builtwithout needing to request access from the user. Uploading a profile pictureis a prime example. Often this is the only photo related feature in an app.Or maybe you support sending photos in a message or social media post.Or, maybe your app supports embedding photos into a document that it creates.All of these features can be built very easily with the new PHPickerwithout requiring any photo library access. PHPicker is a great replacementfor the UIImagePickerController you may be familiar with. It has multi-select and built in search and users will expect that your app willbe able to use features like I just showed without ever granting your appphoto library access. For more information on implementing these workflowswith the new PHPicker, please see this session that my colleagues put together.Now I know I haven't talked about all the features you possibly could buildwith photo kit. So what is left? The simple addition of being able to savean image that accounts for a large percentage of apps. If your app fallsinto this category you are now able to explicitly ask the user for add-onlyaccess to their photos library. And in the API slides coming up we will showexactly how you can do that. Of course there are apps that provide a veryphoto-centric experience that require full access. For example, browsingapps, editing apps, camera apps, or data backup apps. These type of apps willneed to do the most work to handle limited library access. Now I'm goingto hand the presentation over to Adam, who walk you through the new APIswe've introduced this year. Adam?Thanks Matt. As you just heard, limited photos library access can be enabledby the user in every app that requests access to the photo library.So as a developer we want to help you provide the best app experience forusers that choose to enable limited access. First I'm going to walk youthrough the APIs you can use to know if the user has granted your applicationlimited photos access. Then we'll look at what has changed when requesting access.After that, I'll be handing it back to Matt to talk about UI considerationslike how to present the Limited Library Management UI natively and preventthe automatic prompt. Let's start with a look at how you query for authorization status.We've added a new value to the existing page PH Authorization Status Enumerationto indicate that your app is authorized for limited access. And we've introduceda new enumeration called PHAccessLevel. This can be add only or Read/Write.These levels correspond to the two different photos usage privacy promptsthat you should be familiar with. The authorization status query and requestAPIs have have been updated to take an access level. This means that now youcan check if your app is authorized for Read/Write, or just add only access.Limited library doesn't affect add only access, so to check if the userhas granted limited access you need to pass the read write access leveland check for the limited authorization status return value.Let's look at how you can do that in detail. Since we want to know if theuser has authorized our app for limited access, we'll need to specify theRead/Write access level. Then, we'll call the new authorizationStatus APIfor that access level. And the last step is to check the return value forthe new limited authorizationStatus. Usually to setup your UI in a waythat works best in limited access mode. Now let's see how requesting accessis impacted by limited library. When your application wants to access photolibrary data, we still recommend that you allow a user action to drivethat request. Ideally when some UI activity initiated by the user requiresyou to fetch photo data or add to the camera roll, calling the PhotoKitAPIs to perform that work will trigger the request for access and makeit clear to the user why your app is requesting access. But there are somecases where you want to control the timing of that request and we've updatedthe request authorization API to support access level and limited authorization status.Let's take a look at a request example keeping in mind that requestingauthorization only prompts the user if the status isn't already determined.Just like when querying the status, you'll want to declare the access levelyour application needs. In this case again, we're requesting Read/Writeaccess, then call to request authorization for that access level from the user.This will put up the system prompt for photo library access. After the usermakes their choice and the callback to this function you will be providedwith the authorization status value that aligns with their response.This is where you want to check for the new authorization status limited.That indicates that the user has granted your application limited photos library access.The old authorization status and request APIs are not limited libraryor access level aware and are marked for future deprecation. It's importantto note that for compatibility reasons these APIs will not return the newlimited authorization status. Instead they will return authorized,even if the user has granted limited photos library access to your application.Generally, you should expect PhotoKit APIs to act the same whether yourapp has full authorization or limited access to the user's photo library.However, there are a few exceptions that are intentional and worth noting.When your app creates new assets they will automatically be included aspart of the user's selection for the application. User albums however cannotbe fetched, nor created. If your application relies on being able to createan app specific album you will need to change your app's behavior.Also there is no access to cloud shared assets or albums. All right. With thatin mind I'll hand it back to Matt to talk about UI considerations and howyou can natively present the selection UI in your app.So now that you can determine if your app is in limited library mode let'stalk about what UI changes you'll need to make. First I'll cover how youcan present the selection UI natively and second I'll mention howyou can stop the automatic system prompt from happening for your app thefirst time that it does PhotoKit APIs calls after launch. Presenting the managementUI is as simple as calling this new PHPhotoLibrary API, presentLimitedLibraryPicker,passing in the view controller you want it to present from.You should monitor any changes that happen to the user selection throughthe existing PHPhotoLibraryChangeObserver API. By doing this you willbe robust to changes that happen in this picker in system preferences orexisting scenarios such as asset deletions that may have sync through iCloudPhoto Library. You may want to tie the presentation to a button or actionwithin your app. For example in the demo app I showed you in the beginning,some sort of affordance in the browsing experience would be a good wayto allow the user to easily modify their photo library selection for your app.As you can see here we added a button to the browsing experience that pullsup the limited library selection UI. You can suppress the automatic promptingfrom the system by setting this key to yes in your apps info plist.This is found in the same place where you set your photos usage descriptionsstrings in Xcode. This is represented by the prevent limited photosaccess alert key. This exact string will be in an upcoming version of Xcode.In summary, these are the steps that you should go through when updatingyour app to handle the new limited library mode. First, reconsider if you'reapp needs to use photo library access at all. The new PHpicker improvementsthis year are a great way to implement many of your features. Second, adoptthe new authorization APIs so you will know if your app is in limitedlibrary mode. Third, update your app designs to give an affordance for usersto modify their limited library selection in a way that makes sense inthe context of your app. And finally, be sure to set the info Plist keyin Xcode, so the system prompt stops coming up for your app the firsttime it makes PhotoKit API calls after launch.And that's everything you need to know
about the new Limited Photos Library feature. Thank you!

Hello and welcome to WWDC.

Hello and welcome to the session on handling the new Limited Photos Library.My name's Matt Dickoff and together with my colleague Adam Swift we'llbe walking you through this new PhotoKit feature that allows users to bettercontrol the access that apps have to their photos library. We'll startwith a feature overview so you can familiarize yourself with what thislooks like in iOS 14. Then we'll cover what new APIs are availableto determine if your app has been put into this mode. And finally we'lldiscuss some UI changes that you might need to make in your app. So firstlet's go over what limited photo library means. As a reference here's whatfull photos library access looks like to your app. In this scenario your apphas access to nearly all of the assets in the user's photo library throughPhotoKit APIs. Your app can make photo requests to either write or read fromthe database. In limited mode we introduced this concept of the users limitedlibrary selection. You can think of this as a filter for the PhotoKit APIsthat you call. You will only be able to fetch assets and resources relatedto what the user has chosen for you to have access to. When a user modifiestheir selection your app will automatically be notified so that it can updateits UI to reflect the user's actions. It's important to note that limitedphoto library access will affect all apps that use photo kit. Even theapps you've already shipped will be able to be put into this mode in iOS 14.To demonstrate this let's look at an example app. This demo willshow what a user will see when using a third party app that hasn't adoptedany new APIs or functionality. Upon first launch of a photos applicationthe user will often be faced with a prompt asking them to grant the app accessto their photo library. The user now has an additional option which says"Select Photos." After selecting this this, the user is presented with the limitedlibrary management UI. This is allowing the user to individually selectwhat photos or videos the app will have access to via PhotoKit. Now let's selectsome photos. After tapping done the app is back in the foreground. As youcan see the app is only able to fetch the assets selected by the user.The app is still able to see photo metadata such as whether it was favorited,however this is limited to the user's selection. So if we turn the favoriteson for this we can see it's only the selected assets. Now you may be wonderinghow a user would be able to modify this selection of photos for this app.The first way is by going to settings, where alongside the option to changethe overall access level this app has, the user can manage their selection.

So if I add a new photo and go back to our app, you'll see that it refreshedits view of the library.

The second way is specific to apps that haven't made any changes to accommodatethis new mode. For these apps, like this one here, once per app lifecyclewhen they first fetch assets via PhotoKit the user will be promptedto either keep their current selection or modify it. Let me show you whatthat looks like. This allows a user to modify the selection within allapps without app adoption. Later on in the presentation I will show younew APIs that you can adopt which will allow you to take control over whenand where this management UI is presented from as well as suppressingthat prompt that comes up the first time your app calls PhotoKit APIsafter launch. Before we dive into the technical details, I want to firsttalk about why we built this feature. The primary motivation was to giveusers more control over their data. Over the years we've seen personalphoto libraries grow from tends to hundreds of thousands of photos andvideos. In nearly all cases, users do not want to give third parties accessto their entire library. Given this big push for user control this is agreat year to take a step back and ask yourself if your app even needsto ask the user for access to their photo library at all. For most appsthe answer is no. Today users see this prompt way more often than theyreally need to. Many of you don't need to request this level of accessand could provide a simpler and better experience for your users without it. Toaccentuate this point. Let's look at some features that can easily be builtwithout needing to request access from the user. Uploading a profile pictureis a prime example. Often this is the only photo related feature in an app.

Or maybe you support sending photos in a message or social media post.Or, maybe your app supports embedding photos into a document that it creates.All of these features can be built very easily with the new PHPickerwithout requiring any photo library access. PHPicker is a great replacementfor the UIImagePickerController you may be familiar with. It has multi-select and built in search and users will expect that your app willbe able to use features like I just showed without ever granting your appphoto library access. For more information on implementing these workflowswith the new PHPicker, please see this session that my colleagues put together.

Now I know I haven't talked about all the features you possibly could buildwith photo kit. So what is left? The simple addition of being able to savean image that accounts for a large percentage of apps. If your app fallsinto this category you are now able to explicitly ask the user for add-onlyaccess to their photos library. And in the API slides coming up we will showexactly how you can do that. Of course there are apps that provide a veryphoto-centric experience that require full access. For example, browsingapps, editing apps, camera apps, or data backup apps. These type of apps willneed to do the most work to handle limited library access. Now I'm goingto hand the presentation over to Adam, who walk you through the new APIswe've introduced this year. Adam?Thanks Matt. As you just heard, limited photos library access can be enabledby the user in every app that requests access to the photo library.So as a developer we want to help you provide the best app experience forusers that choose to enable limited access. First I'm going to walk youthrough the APIs you can use to know if the user has granted your applicationlimited photos access. Then we'll look at what has changed when requesting access.

After that, I'll be handing it back to Matt to talk about UI considerationslike how to present the Limited Library Management UI natively and preventthe automatic prompt. Let's start with a look at how you query for authorization status.

We've added a new value to the existing page PH Authorization Status Enumerationto indicate that your app is authorized for limited access. And we've introduceda new enumeration called PHAccessLevel. This can be add only or Read/Write.

These levels correspond to the two different photos usage privacy promptsthat you should be familiar with. The authorization status query and requestAPIs have have been updated to take an access level. This means that now youcan check if your app is authorized for Read/Write, or just add only access.

Limited library doesn't affect add only access, so to check if the userhas granted limited access you need to pass the read write access leveland check for the limited authorization status return value.

Let's look at how you can do that in detail. Since we want to know if theuser has authorized our app for limited access, we'll need to specify theRead/Write access level. Then, we'll call the new authorizationStatus APIfor that access level. And the last step is to check the return value forthe new limited authorizationStatus. Usually to setup your UI in a waythat works best in limited access mode. Now let's see how requesting accessis impacted by limited library. When your application wants to access photolibrary data, we still recommend that you allow a user action to drivethat request. Ideally when some UI activity initiated by the user requiresyou to fetch photo data or add to the camera roll, calling the PhotoKitAPIs to perform that work will trigger the request for access and makeit clear to the user why your app is requesting access. But there are somecases where you want to control the timing of that request and we've updatedthe request authorization API to support access level and limited authorization status.Let's take a look at a request example keeping in mind that requestingauthorization only prompts the user if the status isn't already determined.

Just like when querying the status, you'll want to declare the access levelyour application needs. In this case again, we're requesting Read/Writeaccess, then call to request authorization for that access level from the user.This will put up the system prompt for photo library access. After the usermakes their choice and the callback to this function you will be providedwith the authorization status value that aligns with their response.This is where you want to check for the new authorization status limited.That indicates that the user has granted your application limited photos library access.

The old authorization status and request APIs are not limited libraryor access level aware and are marked for future deprecation. It's importantto note that for compatibility reasons these APIs will not return the newlimited authorization status. Instead they will return authorized,even if the user has granted limited photos library access to your application.

Generally, you should expect PhotoKit APIs to act the same whether yourapp has full authorization or limited access to the user's photo library.However, there are a few exceptions that are intentional and worth noting.

When your app creates new assets they will automatically be included aspart of the user's selection for the application. User albums however cannotbe fetched, nor created. If your application relies on being able to createan app specific album you will need to change your app's behavior.Also there is no access to cloud shared assets or albums. All right. With thatin mind I'll hand it back to Matt to talk about UI considerations and howyou can natively present the selection UI in your app.So now that you can determine if your app is in limited library mode let'stalk about what UI changes you'll need to make. First I'll cover how youcan present the selection UI natively and second I'll mention howyou can stop the automatic system prompt from happening for your app thefirst time that it does PhotoKit APIs calls after launch. Presenting the managementUI is as simple as calling this new PHPhotoLibrary API, presentLimitedLibraryPicker,passing in the view controller you want it to present from.You should monitor any changes that happen to the user selection throughthe existing PHPhotoLibraryChangeObserver API. By doing this you willbe robust to changes that happen in this picker in system preferences orexisting scenarios such as asset deletions that may have sync through iCloudPhoto Library. You may want to tie the presentation to a button or actionwithin your app. For example in the demo app I showed you in the beginning,some sort of affordance in the browsing experience would be a good wayto allow the user to easily modify their photo library selection for your app.As you can see here we added a button to the browsing experience that pullsup the limited library selection UI. You can suppress the automatic promptingfrom the system by setting this key to yes in your apps info plist.This is found in the same place where you set your photos usage descriptionsstrings in Xcode. This is represented by the prevent limited photosaccess alert key. This exact string will be in an upcoming version of Xcode.

In summary, these are the steps that you should go through when updatingyour app to handle the new limited library mode. First, reconsider if you'reapp needs to use photo library access at all. The new PHpicker improvementsthis year are a great way to implement many of your features. Second, adoptthe new authorization APIs so you will know if your app is in limitedlibrary mode. Third, update your app designs to give an affordance for usersto modify their limited library selection in a way that makes sense inthe context of your app. And finally, be sure to set the info Plist keyin Xcode, so the system prompt stops coming up for your app the firsttime it makes PhotoKit API calls after launch.

And that's everything you need to know
about the new Limited Photos Library feature. Thank you!

8:36 -Query for authorization status

9:43 -Request read/write authorization

12:04 -Present the limited library management UI

## Code Samples

```swift
import
 Photos


let
 accessLevel: 
PHAccessLevel
 
=
 .readWrite

let
 authorizationStatus 
=
 
PHPhotoLibrary
.authorizationStatus(for: accessLevel)


switch
 authorizationStatus {

case
 .limited:
    
print
(
"limited authorization granted"
)

default
:
    
//
FIXME:
 Implement handling for all authorizationStatus values

    
print
(
"Not implemented"
)
}
```

```swift
import
 Photos


let
 requiredAccessLevel: 
PHAccessLevel
 
=
 .readWrite

PHPhotoLibrary
.requestAuthorization(for: requiredAccessLevel) { authorizationStatus 
in

    
switch
 authorizationStatus {
    
case
 .limited:
        
print
(
"limited authorization granted"
)
    
default
:
        
//
FIXME:
 Implement handling for all authorizationStatus

        
print
(
"Unimplemented"
)
        
    }
}
```

```swift
import
 PhotosUI


let
 library 
=
 
PHPhotoLibrary
.shared()

let
 viewController 
=
 
self


library.presentLimitedLibraryPicker(from: viewController)
```

