# Wwdc2020 10663

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

What's new for web developersExplore the latest features and improvements for Safari and WebKit. We'll walk you through updated web APIs, CSS and media features, JavaScript syntax, and more to help you build great experiences for people when they use your website, home screen web apps, or embedded WebKit views.ResourcesSafari Release NotesSafari Technology PreviewWeb Inspector ReferenceWebKit Open Source ProjectHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC20Discover WKWebView enhancementsMeet Face ID and Touch ID for the webMeet Safari Web ExtensionsWhat's new in Web Inspector

Explore the latest features and improvements for Safari and WebKit. We'll walk you through updated web APIs, CSS and media features, JavaScript syntax, and more to help you build great experiences for people when they use your website, home screen web apps, or embedded WebKit views.

Safari Release Notes

Safari Technology Preview

Web Inspector Reference

WebKit Open Source Project

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Discover WKWebView enhancements

Meet Face ID and Touch ID for the web

Meet Safari Web Extensions

What's new in Web Inspector

Search this video…Hello and welcome to WWDCHello I'm Jon Davis, Web Technologies evangelist for the Safari and WebKit teams.I'm so excited to get to tell you about all of the new features and improvementsfor web developers this year. If you develop websites, web apps save tothe home screen, or Web content used in apps, and want to learn about allof the latest technologies available in Safari and WebKit, this sessionis for you. In this session. I'll give you a tour of the new features andenhancements in WebKit and shipping in Safari 13.1 formacOS, Safari on iOS and iPadOS 13.4 and coming to Safari14 on macOS, iOS an iPadOS. But first, there's some really great news Iwant to share up front. We made a really big effort this year to improveSafari's interoperability with other browsers. One way to measure thatis web platform tests. It's a set of tests used by browser makers to ensure interoperability,so your web content operates the way you expect across browsers. So I'mpleased to announce improved interoperability for service workers, XHR+ Fetch, pointer events, CSS, SVG, web assembly, and many more areas.Safari passes a hundred and forty thousand new interoperability test cases this year.And you can look forward to continued progress in this area. But there'sso much more to talk about this year. In this session,I'm going to go over performance improvements, lots of new web API, CSS updates,media enhancements, including some great image updates, new JavaScript features,and finally, new platform integration capabilities. So let's get startedwith performance and specifically, browsing performance. Page load performanceis foundational to our browsing experience feeling fast and I'm pleasedto report Safari 14 is 13 percent faster, clicking a link to an unvisitedsite, and up to 42 percent faster clicking a link for recently visitedweb page. Typing a URL into the search and address bar for a recentlyvisited web page is 52 percent faster. We improved instant back by cachingup to 34 percent more pages. PFDs show the first page 60 times fasterwhile downloading. And outside of page load performance, closing unresponsivetabs is down from three and a half seconds to just fifty milliseconds.All of these improvements help users and developers have a faster browsingexperience in Safari. And there's performance improvements for developerstoo. CPU usage while scrolling is three times less. It's buttery smoothwith 0 dropped frames. IndexedDB operations are up to 10 times faster.Reduced overhead makes for-of loops of the five times faster based on micro benchmarks.Promises are twice as fast in the jet stream to benchmarks asyncfs test,and optimize JavaScript delete operations are up to twelve times faster.Safari and WebKit are faster than ever. But now I'm going to show youthe new Web API added in WebKit and available in Safari. First up, is theWeb Animations API. It's long awaited and new in Safari 13.1.It's an API available in JavaScript to directly create and control theplayback of CSS animations and transitions. You no longer need to manipulateelement properties. And you can query the animations on the page. Seek directlyto a specific time in the animation playback cycle or even change the speedand direction of playback. So I've been experimenting with a loading animationof the WebKit logo for an internal website where my colleagues enjoydiscussing their pets, and after it's animated in the compass needle spinsand it's a really fun element. So I'd like to let folks interact with ita bit by clicking on the logo to give the needle another spin. And withthe web animations API it's really easy. So in the logos click handlerwe use the element.animate method. It takes a keyframe effect parameterthat allows us to setup the keyframes for the animation, a nice easingfunction so the needle starts spinning quickly with a softer ending and thena reasonable duration in milliseconds. And here it is. And clicking thelogo keeps the needle spinning. That's more fun than I thought it'd be.And Web Inspectors Graphics tab now shows you the animation instances.Including the animations created each time I click the logo. It also visualizesthe easing curves and to help with timing, it gives you a perspective ofthe animation delay compared to its duration. There are lots of updatesto Web Inspector you can learn about the What's New in Web Inspector sessionavailable in your Developer app. So that's the Web animations API. JavaScriptcontrol of animations with all of the power and efficiency of CSS animationsand transitions. Next in our tour is ResizeObserver. It's newly availablewith the release of Safari 13.1 earlier this year. It's aJavaScript API that reports element size changes. It allows elements torespond to the size changes of other elements not just the viewport.With ResizeObserver your content can react to elements that change their sizeboth when the viewport changes like when the window gets resized but moreimportantly when other changes to size occur, like changing the displayproperty or when new child elements are appended.My colleagues on the WebKit team love discussing their pets, so I've beenmaintaining an internal website where they can share pictures and commenton them. And of course it uses responsive design so that when you resizethe window and things start to get a little cramped, the control shrinkto just show the icon and save space. But some folks said they wanted aflexible editor because they like having the extra space while commenting.You can see it resizes well for the window but it doesn't work when resizingthe editor. This hasn't been easily achieved before but ResizeObserveris a great tool for this because it can detect when the size of the containerchanges and react. Let me show you what I've been working on. So to addressthis, I'll create a new ResizeObserver in the site's JavaScript that detectswhen the containers width goes below a certain size then toggle a CSSclass on the container. The style rules for our formatting buttons canpick that up and hide the label to use less space and collapse the sizeof the button so they always fit. To get it working. I just passed the containerelement to the observer method of my newly constructed ResizeObserver.Let's check it out. With the code in place, the resizing the editor causesthe buttons to hide the labels and resize the way you'd expect.That's ResizeObserver. If you want to learn more, there's a blog post onthe WebKit blog with more details.Another feature I need to get working on the Webkitten's website is thepaste button, and I've got just the thing. The async clipboard API.It's also new this year and available in Safari 13.1. You canread data from the system clipboard for paste operations or write datato the clipboard for copying. It's asynchronous to avoid blocking thepage while you're accessing the clipboard. And there's no need to fakea selection or have element focus to copy data into it. It supports multipleitems and item types like images and rich formatted text but, needs a securecontext over https and calls must be invoked in response to user interaction.Now if you're working with just plain text it has shortcut methods to makeit even easier. Copying plain text is as easy as using the clipboard righttext method to write a string of text. And pasting plain text, uses of theclipboard read text method. But for the WebKittens website the team wantsrich HTML formatted text when pasting. Inside the click handler theclipboard read method is called asynchronously to get an array of clipboarditems back. The clipboard items are iterated to find the HTML data.The data gets returned as a blob object. Then file reader is used to getthe HTML data back which is collected and appended to the editor.I copied a comment from another post earlier to test with so I'll clickthe paste button and post it. And there you have it, a functional paste buttonthat handles rich text. The async clipboard API is powerful and this justscratched the surface. You can learn more about it on the WebKit blog.Now if you're a developer of a library or framework, this next news is for you.Safari 13.1 now supports the EventTarget constructor. EventTargetis used by objects that can receive events. For example, Dom elementsextend the EventTarget. But now your own objects can too without all theextra element behaviors. Library authors can use native event functionalityto create their own object interface for dispatching custom events fornon-dom objects. While we're talking about library developers a lot oflibraries are simply providing a custom component for web authors to implement.So that leads us to an update on web components.We've had support for web components in Safari for a long while now andthey keep becoming more and more powerful. It's actually another featureI took advantage of on the WebKitten's website.Everything from the posts, to the comments, and even the formatting buttonsare implemented as web components, But for a simple example let's look specificallyat the formatting buttons. Some simple template markup is used to setupthe component as a custom element. The ID attribute is used to referencethis template in JavaScript. Then in JavaScript it's registered as a custom element.The ID attribute value is repurposed to serve as the custom element hook.Our custom element class extends a generic HTML element and in theconstructor clones the template content to modify the template fragmentwith our text label and icon. And then appends our modified DOM fragment tothe shadow root of the custom element. Then the page markup can createthose elements using the custom elements registered name as the tag name.Each of the format buttons can be customized for bold, italic, underline,and so on. Now as a component author you provide a generic component thatcan get used in many ways so you want to give the page authors some controlover how these elements are style. In this case as a component author wedon't know what kind of button each one will end up being. In the example,component styling handles the layout of a larger text icon to the leftof the button label. But in order to give the bold buttons B icon a boldstyle and an italic style for the I icon the page author who knows what kindof button they're implementing needs to be able to customize that partof the component.With Safari 13.1 released this spring they can, using CSSshadow parts. It allows web component authors to specifically expose partsof their components to content authors to style with their own CSS.You don't need to know all of the underlying markup structure of the componentto style it, just the parts of the component the author exposed throughthe part attribute. Component layout is protected and content authors cancustomize the components to fit the use case or better match the styleof their website.Looking back at our example, this was the original template markup.By adding the part attribute to the elements inside the component they'renow exposed to the pages CSS. Now the page author that's implementing thebuttons can use the part pseudo element selector and easily decorate thebuttons to provide an extra visual hint about their function. So this, turnsinto this. And that's CSS shadow parts for web components. Speaking of visualhints, WebKit added support for another visual hint. The HTML enterkey hint attribute it supported on Safari on iOS 13.4 andiPadOS. It allows you to declare an action label for the enter key onvirtual keyboards of a touchscreen device. You can set the label to giveyour users a hint about what action the enter key will take. Instead ofjust enter it could be done or go or send, for example. Before I wrap upthe new Web API, there's one more API to mention, the web authentication API.It supports logging into websites beyond usernames and passwords,and it was introduced in Safari 13 and Safari on iOS 13.3with support for hardware security keys. And with the latest Safari, WebKithas added support for Touch ID and Face ID in Safari on macOSiOS and iPadOS. You can learn all about the security and convenience ofimplementing it for your users by watching the Face ID and Touch IDon the web session in the Developer app.And that's a look at the new Web API in Safari this year: web animationsResizeObserver, the async clipboard API, The EventTarget Constructor,CSSShadow Parts, HTML. Enter Key Hints and web authentication. I can'twait to see what you do with these new capabilities. But we're not done yet.Let's take a look at several CSS improvements that give content authorsmore fine grained control over styles and layout.This year WebKit added support for system font families. They work inWebKit across all of Apple's platforms. They each map to a system appropriate font.The system UI font family is a generic alias for UI sans serif and on thesystem it maps to San Francisco. UI serif uses the New York font family.UI monospace uses SF Mono. And UI rounded uses SF rounded.They're useful when developing a web app that you want to make feel more familiarto the system and the different font families allow you to create an easilyidentifiable difference between content and user interface, such as on theWebKit website. It uses UI serif for the content areas And UIsans serif for the user interface when adding a comment. So beautiful newfont families for your web apps. Another CSS feature that can helpyour content layout is support for line break anywhere. It breaks to anew line at any opportunity before the content overflows. This can be particularlyhelpful with long words that can overflow narrow containers, especiallytechnical jargon like code where hyphenation might change the intendedmeaning of the word. And it can protect your content from unexpected layout issues.The simplest way to understand it is to see the behavior of the defaultline break rule. WebKit uses a default line break heuristic that's basedon language specific rules while taking into account other CSS thatmight apply. With Roman-based written languages, the line break heuristichyphenates the text when it can, but take a look at the first word on thispage from the web inspector command line API reference. The long queryinstances syntax doesn't break at all. It's breaking right before the longword making a blank line after the bullet. Then it still overflows thecontainer and the viewport. Line break anywhere makes it possible to fix this.With line break anywhere, it breaks T the character just before the overflowmaking it possible to see all of the content without breaking the layout.Now it's possible to see the entire line. Next up is another powerful CSStool, the is pseudo-selector. It's newly supported in Safari 14.It matches a list of selectors just like the matches pseudo-selector.In fact is aliases our matches pseudo- selector behavior that's been part ofSafari for years. The matching element gets the specificity of the mostspecific selector. It's really useful for avoiding repetitive selectors.Here's an example. Here a 3em top margin is added to all the headings.Then this rule removes the top margin when a heading is immediately followedby a heading of the next level down. But, of course, if this is used in acontent management system, page authors may not adhere to strict rules ofan h1 followed by an h2. They're not technically prevented from using anh1 followed by an h3, so this isn't enough to cover all of those cases.To do that you'd need a really repetitive selector like this. That's prettyawful looking. But with is we can simplify writing all of that out andit becomes this. That's so much nicer. To go along with is WebKit alsosupports the where pseudo-selector. It works the same way as is in thatit matches a list of selectors, but the big difference is that the CSSspecificity of any matching element is always zero. So it can act as akind of specificity reset. Here's another example. And I'll start by comparingis first. Looking at this example the is selects an intro class, pull quote,or element with the hero ID and styles the paragraph tag that immediatelyfollows it, to use uppercase text and give it an eye-grabbing look.Later in the styles the page author is trying to specifically override the headinglevels two through six followed by a paragraph to use normal text.Seems like they only want this to work for paragraphs following level 1 headings.But using is means that it won't work as expected. This is where the wherepseudo-selector comes in. Using where instead makes this possible. Now, theelements matched by where a reset to a specificity level of zero makingthe follow up rules able to override as expected.From CSS we move on to media. But included in media is a fair number ofimage updates as well. And I'm pleased to announce support for an entirelynew image format webP images.WebP is an open source image format that provides smaller file sizes andlots of advance bells and whistles. It supports a lossy format comparableto JPEG and a lossless format like PDG. It even supports transparency andanimation across both. In your markup you can use the picture elements toadd webP images with a fallback and on the server side you can look at theaccept header. But a big reason web developers are excited for this formatis the file size savings. This sample JPEG encoded at 80 percent qualityis 5.1 megabytes but the webP lossy encoding of the same quality settingsgives us a 41 percent file savings with visual quality that's nearly thesame as a JPEG. This high resolution PNG weighs in at eight hundred andseventeen kilobytes but the lossless webP encoding preserves the transparencyand saves us 33 percent. WebP image support is available in Safari 14and Safari for iOS 14. While we're talking about images there are a coupleof new default image behaviors in WebKit. The first is a change that willimprove the way your web pages load. We've all seen what happens when weload a web page where the images load in and cause the layout to jump around.I'm going to show you how easy it is to fix this with WebKits new behaviorfor calculating the default image aspect ratio. In Safari 13.1and in Safari on iOS 13.4, WebKit now calculatesthe image aspect ratio from an image tags width and height attributes.All you have to do is make sure to add the width and height attributesto your image tags. Let's see what happens when the attributes are added.There's no jumping around at all. The space is reserved for the image andit just loads right in. Beautiful. The other new default behavior is forimage orientation. We've supported respecting EXIF image orientation oniOS for a long time. This update aligns our support on iOS and macOSthrough the standard image orientation from image value. The from imagevalue tell Safari to respect the image orientation flag encoded into imagesthat support EXIF data. This JPEG image is encoded with an EXIF orientationflag of 6 meaning the camera was rotated 90 degrees counterclockwise.And now you can override this default by setting image orientation value to noneto display the image directly as encoded without rotation correction.From images we move on to video. With system support for high dynamic rangevideos in web content with Safari 14 on macOS.You can use media queries to detect high dynamic range display support.In CSS you can query support with dynamic range high like this. Or youcan use the windows matchMedia method in JavaScript so you can deliverprogressively enhanced content to users with HDR displays. Continuing withvideo updates WebKit has added support for the remote playback API.We've always had an API for doing AirPlay before but the remote playback APIis a standards based way of adding remote playback of audio or video toyour custom web based media player and sending it to a variety of otherremote playback devices like connected TVs, audio-only speakers, and anyAirPlay capable devices. To use it, you'll set up a custom button on yourvideo player controls and in response to user interaction call The video elementsremote prompt method. Then, you can handle updating remote playback statein your callback handler. It's really that easy. Then on your device, userscan tap on the control to get a menu of available remote playback devices.When selected the video is sent to that device. Supporting the remote playbackAPI gives your users the flexibility to enjoy media on all of their devices.And another way to help users enjoy your media is the picture in picture API.Adding a picture in picture control to your web player allows users toplay videos in a pop-out window while they continue doing other tasks. Likeremote playback, WebKit has supported picture in picture for a while butthe standards based picture in picture API is now available and it works acrossiOS, iPadOS and macOS. Similar to using the remote playback API youset up a custom control element and call the video elements request picturein picture method in response to user interaction. That's it. Then yourusers can enjoy videos in picture in picture mode on their device whiledoing other tasks. In other news related to video, Safari 14 include supportfor timed metadata in HLS. It's new in Safari 14. And this is metadatasynchronized to the media timestamps in the video stream. It can be usedto provide program information like episode details or live sports datalike inning boundaries or scores. There are two approaches supported,The HLS EXT daterange tag is available in the data queue and carries themetadata to the HLS media playlists themselves. The advantages of usingthese tags is their immediacy and scope. All metadata in media playlistsis available to the video player as soon as it's loaded. It doesn't requirewaiting for the specific segment to load or for the playhead to pass over it.And event message boxes are now available in fragmented MP4s. These arecompatible with ID3 storage and other formats like MPEG-2 transportstreams to carry the same metadata in a fragmented MP4 containers.This is especially important for codecs like HEVC and Dolby Atmos which Appleplatforms only recognize inside fragmented MP4s. The last update isan enhancement for developers of video sites that provide subtitles and captioning.This is a short but sweet update. It's an enhancement to text track youthat allows you to use your own captions format but use native caption rendering.Developers can use existing caption formats without needing to convertthem all. And because the user agent is responsible for displaying thecaptions, they get first class accessibility treatment. Plus they renderin both full screen and picture in picture without any extra work.Those are our media updates with support for webP images, new defaults for image aspectratio and orientation, Mac HDR video, timed metadata in HLS, remoteplayback, and picture in picture APIs with natively rendered subtitlesin captions. Now it's time for new JavaScript features. Starting with BigInts.BigInts are new data types in JavaScript. They're integers that are arbitrarilylarge and most commonly used in cryptography, but are useful wherever youneed numbers larger than the max safe integer in JavaScript. But thereare a few things to keep in mind. You can't use number operations or mix operationswith the regular number data type. You also can't use JSON.stringifty toserialize a BinInt for backwards compatibility reasons. You'll need to buildyour own serialization functionality to ensure the decoding process matchesyour serialization format.And be aware that when using the division operator, BigInts will drop anydecimal values. That's BinInts available in Safari 14. But WebKitalso supports some powerful new operators to help with null and undefined values.The nullish coalescing operator works like other logical operators butit checks for existence. Let's look at a quick example.So I have a person class where the constructor takes a first name, lastname, and age argument. The nullish coalescing operator is used to checkif an argument's value is provided. If it's null or undefined, the resultof the right-hand side of the operator is used instead.Here without any arguments the right-hand side defaults as I like to thinkof them, are used. But passing boolean values, regardless of what they are,pass the existence check and are set as the properties and the person object.Passing a filled in string or empty string or even zero for the age stillevaluates to set the fields to the passed in arguments. And finally passingthe full data sets the properties and that's nullish coalescing.Building on nullish coalescing and also new this year is optional chaining.It's a new JavaScript syntax that gives you a shortcut for property access. Andit even works for indexes and methods too. Take a look at this example.Here, we add a name property to include both the first and last name.And when a person is registered we want to see the first name. This is howyou might typically add some guards to make sure you can access the first name property.Passing no arguments to the person when calling register gives us an undefined result.And passing strings for the first name and last name gives us the expectedfirst name, but with optional chaining, we can replace this approach withnew syntax that uses the optional chaining operator. And it works in theexact same way. It also works with indexes like checking for the firstentry in an array of a person's children. Using optional chaining hereavoids the type error and it even works for methods. Trying to call anundeclared method triggers an error but with optional chaining you canavoid the error. So that's optional chaining. Sticking with the operatorstheme they're even more newly available operators in Safari 14,Logical assignment operators. And they come in three flavors: logical and assignment,logical or assignment, plus a knowledge assignment operator. Logical assignmentoperators are nice in that they only evaluate the left-hand side expressiononce and it isn't as destructive in that it doesn't always reassign.Take this example using the nullish coalescing operator where it always reassignsinner HTML. With a knowledge assignment operator, it only destructivelyassigns inner HTML if it is null or undefined. Switching gearsback to objects for a moment, WebKit in Safari 14 include support forpublic class fields. Public class fields are new syntax to declare memberproperties that are part of the object, regardless of them being set upin the constructor. Looking at the person example earlier they could beset up like this. Now, children, for example, will still be available whena new person object is created, even though it isn't set in the constructor.By not having it in the constructor you can focus on the logic insteadof worrying if variables are set, as public class fields are guaranteedto always be added. And a final utility in JavaScript to look at is StringreplaceAll. Finally, String replaceAll is new in Safari 13.1and it does what it promises, replacing all instances of a string. Previouslythe string replace method would only replace the first occurrence of the string.You'd have to iterate over the words in the string or use a global regular expression.With replaceAll you can replace all the instances of the string. And thoseare the powerful new JavaScript features available in Safari this year:BigInt, Nullish coalescing, optional chaining, Logical assignment operators,Public class fields, and String replaceAll. That's our JavaScript updates.And finally I'm going to share a few exciting platform integration capabilitiesnew this year.First up is AR quick look on iOS. These are experiences launched from Safarithat can be customized with Web technologies. And new with iOS13.3, these experiences can include a banner for users to buy products.You can customize individual elements of the banner or provide a completelycustom banner with a simple HTML page. To learn more I encourage youto check out the Shop Online with AR Quick Look session in the Developer app.Another platform technology in Safari updated this year is Apple Pay.Apple Pay on the web has been updated to add new button types with customrounded corners and the ability to request redacted billing details.This is great for merchants that calculate tax based on a customer's locationbut have no use for the shipping address. To learn more see the What'sNew in Wallet and Apple Pay session in the Developer app. Finally anotherexperience new this year is app clips. It gives users a focused, fast, andfrictionless experience without waiting for downloading and installing an entireapp. On your website you can let users know that an app clip interactionis available by adding the Apple iTunes meta tag to your websites HTMLand include your App Store ID and the new app clip bundle IDparameter to add a banner to your website. You can learn more about app clips bywatching the Explore App Clips session in the Developer app.That wraps up our platform integration with customizable AR quick look,Apple Pay updates, and the all new app clips experience. And it also wrapsup our tour of the new features and improvements of Safari and WebKit.There's a whole lot new in Safari this year powered by changes in WebKitand I encourage you to try these features out and share your feedback.Now is the perfect time to test it and we'd love to hear how it goes especiallyif you run into bugs. For Web API, CSS, or JavaScript bugs you can fileissues on the Web get bug tracker at bugs.webkit.org. For Safaribugs or issues specific to iOS, home screen web apps, or Apple platform integration features,you can use feedback assistant. If you want to stay on the leading edgeof what's coming you should download and use Safari Technology Preview.It's a separate version of Safari that works right alongside of Safariand it's shipped every two weeks with a sneak peek of new and experimentalfeatures as well as new web inspector tools. So as a web developer youcan be using the latest developer tools every two weeks. You can also stayinformed by keeping tabs on the WebKit website at webkit.org. It featuresblog posts, safari technology preview, release notes, and a fantastic libraryof reference guides for using web inspector. You can also follow WebKiton Twitter for new announcements about the WebKit project along with tipsand tricks for web inspector.And check out the links related to this session including Safari Web Extensions.What's New in Web Inspector and more web technologies. Thanks for joiningme and enjoy WWDC.

Hello and welcome to WWDCHello I'm Jon Davis, Web Technologies evangelist for the Safari and WebKit teams.

I'm so excited to get to tell you about all of the new features and improvementsfor web developers this year. If you develop websites, web apps save tothe home screen, or Web content used in apps, and want to learn about allof the latest technologies available in Safari and WebKit, this sessionis for you. In this session. I'll give you a tour of the new features andenhancements in WebKit and shipping in Safari 13.1 formacOS, Safari on iOS and iPadOS 13.4 and coming to Safari14 on macOS, iOS an iPadOS. But first, there's some really great news Iwant to share up front. We made a really big effort this year to improveSafari's interoperability with other browsers. One way to measure thatis web platform tests. It's a set of tests used by browser makers to ensure interoperability,so your web content operates the way you expect across browsers. So I'mpleased to announce improved interoperability for service workers, XHR+ Fetch, pointer events, CSS, SVG, web assembly, and many more areas.Safari passes a hundred and forty thousand new interoperability test cases this year.And you can look forward to continued progress in this area. But there'sso much more to talk about this year. In this session,I'm going to go over performance improvements, lots of new web API, CSS updates,media enhancements, including some great image updates, new JavaScript features,and finally, new platform integration capabilities. So let's get startedwith performance and specifically, browsing performance. Page load performanceis foundational to our browsing experience feeling fast and I'm pleasedto report Safari 14 is 13 percent faster, clicking a link to an unvisitedsite, and up to 42 percent faster clicking a link for recently visitedweb page. Typing a URL into the search and address bar for a recentlyvisited web page is 52 percent faster. We improved instant back by cachingup to 34 percent more pages. PFDs show the first page 60 times fasterwhile downloading. And outside of page load performance, closing unresponsivetabs is down from three and a half seconds to just fifty milliseconds.All of these improvements help users and developers have a faster browsingexperience in Safari. And there's performance improvements for developerstoo. CPU usage while scrolling is three times less. It's buttery smoothwith 0 dropped frames. IndexedDB operations are up to 10 times faster.Reduced overhead makes for-of loops of the five times faster based on micro benchmarks.Promises are twice as fast in the jet stream to benchmarks asyncfs test,and optimize JavaScript delete operations are up to twelve times faster.Safari and WebKit are faster than ever. But now I'm going to show youthe new Web API added in WebKit and available in Safari. First up, is theWeb Animations API. It's long awaited and new in Safari 13.1.It's an API available in JavaScript to directly create and control theplayback of CSS animations and transitions. You no longer need to manipulateelement properties. And you can query the animations on the page. Seek directlyto a specific time in the animation playback cycle or even change the speedand direction of playback. So I've been experimenting with a loading animationof the WebKit logo for an internal website where my colleagues enjoydiscussing their pets, and after it's animated in the compass needle spinsand it's a really fun element. So I'd like to let folks interact with ita bit by clicking on the logo to give the needle another spin. And withthe web animations API it's really easy. So in the logos click handlerwe use the element.animate method. It takes a keyframe effect parameterthat allows us to setup the keyframes for the animation, a nice easingfunction so the needle starts spinning quickly with a softer ending and thena reasonable duration in milliseconds. And here it is. And clicking thelogo keeps the needle spinning. That's more fun than I thought it'd be.

And Web Inspectors Graphics tab now shows you the animation instances.

Including the animations created each time I click the logo. It also visualizesthe easing curves and to help with timing, it gives you a perspective ofthe animation delay compared to its duration. There are lots of updatesto Web Inspector you can learn about the What's New in Web Inspector sessionavailable in your Developer app. So that's the Web animations API. JavaScriptcontrol of animations with all of the power and efficiency of CSS animationsand transitions. Next in our tour is ResizeObserver. It's newly availablewith the release of Safari 13.1 earlier this year. It's aJavaScript API that reports element size changes. It allows elements torespond to the size changes of other elements not just the viewport.With ResizeObserver your content can react to elements that change their sizeboth when the viewport changes like when the window gets resized but moreimportantly when other changes to size occur, like changing the displayproperty or when new child elements are appended.

My colleagues on the WebKit team love discussing their pets, so I've beenmaintaining an internal website where they can share pictures and commenton them. And of course it uses responsive design so that when you resizethe window and things start to get a little cramped, the control shrinkto just show the icon and save space. But some folks said they wanted aflexible editor because they like having the extra space while commenting.You can see it resizes well for the window but it doesn't work when resizingthe editor. This hasn't been easily achieved before but ResizeObserveris a great tool for this because it can detect when the size of the containerchanges and react. Let me show you what I've been working on. So to addressthis, I'll create a new ResizeObserver in the site's JavaScript that detectswhen the containers width goes below a certain size then toggle a CSSclass on the container. The style rules for our formatting buttons canpick that up and hide the label to use less space and collapse the sizeof the button so they always fit. To get it working. I just passed the containerelement to the observer method of my newly constructed ResizeObserver.Let's check it out. With the code in place, the resizing the editor causesthe buttons to hide the labels and resize the way you'd expect.

That's ResizeObserver. If you want to learn more, there's a blog post onthe WebKit blog with more details.Another feature I need to get working on the Webkitten's website is thepaste button, and I've got just the thing. The async clipboard API.It's also new this year and available in Safari 13.1. You canread data from the system clipboard for paste operations or write datato the clipboard for copying. It's asynchronous to avoid blocking thepage while you're accessing the clipboard. And there's no need to fakea selection or have element focus to copy data into it. It supports multipleitems and item types like images and rich formatted text but, needs a securecontext over https and calls must be invoked in response to user interaction.

Now if you're working with just plain text it has shortcut methods to makeit even easier. Copying plain text is as easy as using the clipboard righttext method to write a string of text. And pasting plain text, uses of theclipboard read text method. But for the WebKittens website the team wantsrich HTML formatted text when pasting. Inside the click handler theclipboard read method is called asynchronously to get an array of clipboarditems back. The clipboard items are iterated to find the HTML data.

The data gets returned as a blob object. Then file reader is used to getthe HTML data back which is collected and appended to the editor.

I copied a comment from another post earlier to test with so I'll clickthe paste button and post it. And there you have it, a functional paste buttonthat handles rich text. The async clipboard API is powerful and this justscratched the surface. You can learn more about it on the WebKit blog.

Now if you're a developer of a library or framework, this next news is for you.

Safari 13.1 now supports the EventTarget constructor. EventTargetis used by objects that can receive events. For example, Dom elementsextend the EventTarget. But now your own objects can too without all theextra element behaviors. Library authors can use native event functionalityto create their own object interface for dispatching custom events fornon-dom objects. While we're talking about library developers a lot oflibraries are simply providing a custom component for web authors to implement.So that leads us to an update on web components.

We've had support for web components in Safari for a long while now andthey keep becoming more and more powerful. It's actually another featureI took advantage of on the WebKitten's website.

Everything from the posts, to the comments, and even the formatting buttonsare implemented as web components, But for a simple example let's look specificallyat the formatting buttons. Some simple template markup is used to setupthe component as a custom element. The ID attribute is used to referencethis template in JavaScript. Then in JavaScript it's registered as a custom element.The ID attribute value is repurposed to serve as the custom element hook.

Our custom element class extends a generic HTML element and in theconstructor clones the template content to modify the template fragmentwith our text label and icon. And then appends our modified DOM fragment tothe shadow root of the custom element. Then the page markup can createthose elements using the custom elements registered name as the tag name.

Each of the format buttons can be customized for bold, italic, underline,and so on. Now as a component author you provide a generic component thatcan get used in many ways so you want to give the page authors some controlover how these elements are style. In this case as a component author wedon't know what kind of button each one will end up being. In the example,component styling handles the layout of a larger text icon to the leftof the button label. But in order to give the bold buttons B icon a boldstyle and an italic style for the I icon the page author who knows what kindof button they're implementing needs to be able to customize that partof the component.

With Safari 13.1 released this spring they can, using CSSshadow parts. It allows web component authors to specifically expose partsof their components to content authors to style with their own CSS.You don't need to know all of the underlying markup structure of the componentto style it, just the parts of the component the author exposed throughthe part attribute. Component layout is protected and content authors cancustomize the components to fit the use case or better match the styleof their website.Looking back at our example, this was the original template markup.By adding the part attribute to the elements inside the component they'renow exposed to the pages CSS. Now the page author that's implementing thebuttons can use the part pseudo element selector and easily decorate thebuttons to provide an extra visual hint about their function. So this, turnsinto this. And that's CSS shadow parts for web components. Speaking of visualhints, WebKit added support for another visual hint. The HTML enterkey hint attribute it supported on Safari on iOS 13.4 andiPadOS. It allows you to declare an action label for the enter key onvirtual keyboards of a touchscreen device. You can set the label to giveyour users a hint about what action the enter key will take. Instead ofjust enter it could be done or go or send, for example. Before I wrap upthe new Web API, there's one more API to mention, the web authentication API.It supports logging into websites beyond usernames and passwords,and it was introduced in Safari 13 and Safari on iOS 13.3with support for hardware security keys. And with the latest Safari, WebKithas added support for Touch ID and Face ID in Safari on macOSiOS and iPadOS. You can learn all about the security and convenience ofimplementing it for your users by watching the Face ID and Touch IDon the web session in the Developer app.

And that's a look at the new Web API in Safari this year: web animationsResizeObserver, the async clipboard API, The EventTarget Constructor,CSSShadow Parts, HTML. Enter Key Hints and web authentication. I can'twait to see what you do with these new capabilities. But we're not done yet.

Let's take a look at several CSS improvements that give content authorsmore fine grained control over styles and layout.

This year WebKit added support for system font families. They work inWebKit across all of Apple's platforms. They each map to a system appropriate font.

The system UI font family is a generic alias for UI sans serif and on thesystem it maps to San Francisco. UI serif uses the New York font family.

UI monospace uses SF Mono. And UI rounded uses SF rounded.They're useful when developing a web app that you want to make feel more familiarto the system and the different font families allow you to create an easilyidentifiable difference between content and user interface, such as on theWebKit website. It uses UI serif for the content areas And UIsans serif for the user interface when adding a comment. So beautiful newfont families for your web apps. Another CSS feature that can helpyour content layout is support for line break anywhere. It breaks to anew line at any opportunity before the content overflows. This can be particularlyhelpful with long words that can overflow narrow containers, especiallytechnical jargon like code where hyphenation might change the intendedmeaning of the word. And it can protect your content from unexpected layout issues.The simplest way to understand it is to see the behavior of the defaultline break rule. WebKit uses a default line break heuristic that's basedon language specific rules while taking into account other CSS thatmight apply. With Roman-based written languages, the line break heuristichyphenates the text when it can, but take a look at the first word on thispage from the web inspector command line API reference. The long queryinstances syntax doesn't break at all. It's breaking right before the longword making a blank line after the bullet. Then it still overflows thecontainer and the viewport. Line break anywhere makes it possible to fix this.

With line break anywhere, it breaks T the character just before the overflowmaking it possible to see all of the content without breaking the layout.Now it's possible to see the entire line. Next up is another powerful CSStool, the is pseudo-selector. It's newly supported in Safari 14.It matches a list of selectors just like the matches pseudo-selector.In fact is aliases our matches pseudo- selector behavior that's been part ofSafari for years. The matching element gets the specificity of the mostspecific selector. It's really useful for avoiding repetitive selectors.Here's an example. Here a 3em top margin is added to all the headings.Then this rule removes the top margin when a heading is immediately followedby a heading of the next level down. But, of course, if this is used in acontent management system, page authors may not adhere to strict rules ofan h1 followed by an h2. They're not technically prevented from using anh1 followed by an h3, so this isn't enough to cover all of those cases.To do that you'd need a really repetitive selector like this. That's prettyawful looking. But with is we can simplify writing all of that out andit becomes this. That's so much nicer. To go along with is WebKit alsosupports the where pseudo-selector. It works the same way as is in thatit matches a list of selectors, but the big difference is that the CSSspecificity of any matching element is always zero. So it can act as akind of specificity reset. Here's another example. And I'll start by comparingis first. Looking at this example the is selects an intro class, pull quote,or element with the hero ID and styles the paragraph tag that immediatelyfollows it, to use uppercase text and give it an eye-grabbing look.Later in the styles the page author is trying to specifically override the headinglevels two through six followed by a paragraph to use normal text.Seems like they only want this to work for paragraphs following level 1 headings.But using is means that it won't work as expected. This is where the wherepseudo-selector comes in. Using where instead makes this possible. Now, theelements matched by where a reset to a specificity level of zero makingthe follow up rules able to override as expected.

From CSS we move on to media. But included in media is a fair number ofimage updates as well. And I'm pleased to announce support for an entirelynew image format webP images.

WebP is an open source image format that provides smaller file sizes andlots of advance bells and whistles. It supports a lossy format comparableto JPEG and a lossless format like PDG. It even supports transparency andanimation across both. In your markup you can use the picture elements toadd webP images with a fallback and on the server side you can look at theaccept header. But a big reason web developers are excited for this formatis the file size savings. This sample JPEG encoded at 80 percent qualityis 5.1 megabytes but the webP lossy encoding of the same quality settingsgives us a 41 percent file savings with visual quality that's nearly thesame as a JPEG. This high resolution PNG weighs in at eight hundred andseventeen kilobytes but the lossless webP encoding preserves the transparencyand saves us 33 percent. WebP image support is available in Safari 14and Safari for iOS 14. While we're talking about images there are a coupleof new default image behaviors in WebKit. The first is a change that willimprove the way your web pages load. We've all seen what happens when weload a web page where the images load in and cause the layout to jump around.

I'm going to show you how easy it is to fix this with WebKits new behaviorfor calculating the default image aspect ratio. In Safari 13.1and in Safari on iOS 13.4, WebKit now calculatesthe image aspect ratio from an image tags width and height attributes.All you have to do is make sure to add the width and height attributesto your image tags. Let's see what happens when the attributes are added.

There's no jumping around at all. The space is reserved for the image andit just loads right in. Beautiful. The other new default behavior is forimage orientation. We've supported respecting EXIF image orientation oniOS for a long time. This update aligns our support on iOS and macOSthrough the standard image orientation from image value. The from imagevalue tell Safari to respect the image orientation flag encoded into imagesthat support EXIF data. This JPEG image is encoded with an EXIF orientationflag of 6 meaning the camera was rotated 90 degrees counterclockwise.And now you can override this default by setting image orientation value to noneto display the image directly as encoded without rotation correction.From images we move on to video. With system support for high dynamic rangevideos in web content with Safari 14 on macOS.

You can use media queries to detect high dynamic range display support.In CSS you can query support with dynamic range high like this. Or youcan use the windows matchMedia method in JavaScript so you can deliverprogressively enhanced content to users with HDR displays. Continuing withvideo updates WebKit has added support for the remote playback API.We've always had an API for doing AirPlay before but the remote playback APIis a standards based way of adding remote playback of audio or video toyour custom web based media player and sending it to a variety of otherremote playback devices like connected TVs, audio-only speakers, and anyAirPlay capable devices. To use it, you'll set up a custom button on yourvideo player controls and in response to user interaction call The video elementsremote prompt method. Then, you can handle updating remote playback statein your callback handler. It's really that easy. Then on your device, userscan tap on the control to get a menu of available remote playback devices.When selected the video is sent to that device. Supporting the remote playbackAPI gives your users the flexibility to enjoy media on all of their devices.And another way to help users enjoy your media is the picture in picture API.

Adding a picture in picture control to your web player allows users toplay videos in a pop-out window while they continue doing other tasks. Likeremote playback, WebKit has supported picture in picture for a while butthe standards based picture in picture API is now available and it works acrossiOS, iPadOS and macOS. Similar to using the remote playback API youset up a custom control element and call the video elements request picturein picture method in response to user interaction. That's it. Then yourusers can enjoy videos in picture in picture mode on their device whiledoing other tasks. In other news related to video, Safari 14 include supportfor timed metadata in HLS. It's new in Safari 14. And this is metadatasynchronized to the media timestamps in the video stream. It can be usedto provide program information like episode details or live sports datalike inning boundaries or scores. There are two approaches supported,The HLS EXT daterange tag is available in the data queue and carries themetadata to the HLS media playlists themselves. The advantages of usingthese tags is their immediacy and scope. All metadata in media playlistsis available to the video player as soon as it's loaded. It doesn't requirewaiting for the specific segment to load or for the playhead to pass over it.

And event message boxes are now available in fragmented MP4s. These arecompatible with ID3 storage and other formats like MPEG-2 transportstreams to carry the same metadata in a fragmented MP4 containers.This is especially important for codecs like HEVC and Dolby Atmos which Appleplatforms only recognize inside fragmented MP4s. The last update isan enhancement for developers of video sites that provide subtitles and captioning.

This is a short but sweet update. It's an enhancement to text track youthat allows you to use your own captions format but use native caption rendering.

Developers can use existing caption formats without needing to convertthem all. And because the user agent is responsible for displaying thecaptions, they get first class accessibility treatment. Plus they renderin both full screen and picture in picture without any extra work.Those are our media updates with support for webP images, new defaults for image aspectratio and orientation, Mac HDR video, timed metadata in HLS, remoteplayback, and picture in picture APIs with natively rendered subtitlesin captions. Now it's time for new JavaScript features. Starting with BigInts.BigInts are new data types in JavaScript. They're integers that are arbitrarilylarge and most commonly used in cryptography, but are useful wherever youneed numbers larger than the max safe integer in JavaScript. But thereare a few things to keep in mind. You can't use number operations or mix operationswith the regular number data type. You also can't use JSON.stringifty toserialize a BinInt for backwards compatibility reasons. You'll need to buildyour own serialization functionality to ensure the decoding process matchesyour serialization format.

And be aware that when using the division operator, BigInts will drop anydecimal values. That's BinInts available in Safari 14. But WebKitalso supports some powerful new operators to help with null and undefined values.

The nullish coalescing operator works like other logical operators butit checks for existence. Let's look at a quick example.

So I have a person class where the constructor takes a first name, lastname, and age argument. The nullish coalescing operator is used to checkif an argument's value is provided. If it's null or undefined, the resultof the right-hand side of the operator is used instead.

Here without any arguments the right-hand side defaults as I like to thinkof them, are used. But passing boolean values, regardless of what they are,pass the existence check and are set as the properties and the person object.

Passing a filled in string or empty string or even zero for the age stillevaluates to set the fields to the passed in arguments. And finally passingthe full data sets the properties and that's nullish coalescing.Building on nullish coalescing and also new this year is optional chaining.It's a new JavaScript syntax that gives you a shortcut for property access. Andit even works for indexes and methods too. Take a look at this example.

Here, we add a name property to include both the first and last name.And when a person is registered we want to see the first name. This is howyou might typically add some guards to make sure you can access the first name property.

Passing no arguments to the person when calling register gives us an undefined result.

And passing strings for the first name and last name gives us the expectedfirst name, but with optional chaining, we can replace this approach withnew syntax that uses the optional chaining operator. And it works in theexact same way. It also works with indexes like checking for the firstentry in an array of a person's children. Using optional chaining hereavoids the type error and it even works for methods. Trying to call anundeclared method triggers an error but with optional chaining you canavoid the error. So that's optional chaining. Sticking with the operatorstheme they're even more newly available operators in Safari 14,Logical assignment operators. And they come in three flavors: logical and assignment,logical or assignment, plus a knowledge assignment operator. Logical assignmentoperators are nice in that they only evaluate the left-hand side expressiononce and it isn't as destructive in that it doesn't always reassign.Take this example using the nullish coalescing operator where it always reassignsinner HTML. With a knowledge assignment operator, it only destructivelyassigns inner HTML if it is null or undefined. Switching gearsback to objects for a moment, WebKit in Safari 14 include support forpublic class fields. Public class fields are new syntax to declare memberproperties that are part of the object, regardless of them being set upin the constructor. Looking at the person example earlier they could beset up like this. Now, children, for example, will still be available whena new person object is created, even though it isn't set in the constructor.By not having it in the constructor you can focus on the logic insteadof worrying if variables are set, as public class fields are guaranteedto always be added. And a final utility in JavaScript to look at is StringreplaceAll. Finally, String replaceAll is new in Safari 13.1and it does what it promises, replacing all instances of a string. Previouslythe string replace method would only replace the first occurrence of the string.You'd have to iterate over the words in the string or use a global regular expression.

With replaceAll you can replace all the instances of the string. And thoseare the powerful new JavaScript features available in Safari this year:BigInt, Nullish coalescing, optional chaining, Logical assignment operators,Public class fields, and String replaceAll. That's our JavaScript updates.

And finally I'm going to share a few exciting platform integration capabilitiesnew this year.

First up is AR quick look on iOS. These are experiences launched from Safarithat can be customized with Web technologies. And new with iOS13.3, these experiences can include a banner for users to buy products.You can customize individual elements of the banner or provide a completelycustom banner with a simple HTML page. To learn more I encourage youto check out the Shop Online with AR Quick Look session in the Developer app.

Another platform technology in Safari updated this year is Apple Pay.

Apple Pay on the web has been updated to add new button types with customrounded corners and the ability to request redacted billing details.

This is great for merchants that calculate tax based on a customer's locationbut have no use for the shipping address. To learn more see the What'sNew in Wallet and Apple Pay session in the Developer app. Finally anotherexperience new this year is app clips. It gives users a focused, fast, andfrictionless experience without waiting for downloading and installing an entireapp. On your website you can let users know that an app clip interactionis available by adding the Apple iTunes meta tag to your websites HTMLand include your App Store ID and the new app clip bundle IDparameter to add a banner to your website. You can learn more about app clips bywatching the Explore App Clips session in the Developer app.

That wraps up our platform integration with customizable AR quick look,Apple Pay updates, and the all new app clips experience. And it also wrapsup our tour of the new features and improvements of Safari and WebKit.

There's a whole lot new in Safari this year powered by changes in WebKitand I encourage you to try these features out and share your feedback.Now is the perfect time to test it and we'd love to hear how it goes especiallyif you run into bugs. For Web API, CSS, or JavaScript bugs you can fileissues on the Web get bug tracker at bugs.webkit.org. For Safaribugs or issues specific to iOS, home screen web apps, or Apple platform integration features,you can use feedback assistant. If you want to stay on the leading edgeof what's coming you should download and use Safari Technology Preview.It's a separate version of Safari that works right alongside of Safariand it's shipped every two weeks with a sneak peek of new and experimentalfeatures as well as new web inspector tools. So as a web developer youcan be using the latest developer tools every two weeks. You can also stayinformed by keeping tabs on the WebKit website at webkit.org. It featuresblog posts, safari technology preview, release notes, and a fantastic libraryof reference guides for using web inspector. You can also follow WebKiton Twitter for new announcements about the WebKit project along with tipsand tricks for web inspector.And check out the links related to this session including Safari Web Extensions.What's New in Web Inspector and more web technologies. Thanks for joiningme and enjoy WWDC.

4:22 -Web Animations API code example

6:43 -Resize observer example

8:15 -Async Clipboard API plain text programmatic copy

8:22 -Async Clipboard API plain text examples

10:25 -Web Component example markup

10:36 -Registering the Web Component

11:02 -Web Component custom elements

12:28 -Original example Web Component template

12:30 -Example Web Component template with CSS Shadow Parts

12:38 -CSS Shadow Part styles

13:16 -HTML enterkeyhint attribute

14:32 -System font families

14:45 -San Francisco font family

14:53 -New York font family

14:58 -SF Mono font family

15:03 -SF Rounded font family

16:07 -line-break: auto

16:43 -line-break: anywhere

17:25 -Removing margins from subsequent headings

17:56 -Removing margins from any subsequent headings

18:02 -Using :is() to remove margins from subsequent headings

18:31 -:is() specificity prevents the override from working

19:07 -:where () resets specificity

19:53 -WebP graceful fallback to JPG

19:54 -WebP graceful fallback to JPG and server-side detection

21:17 -Image with no size attributes

21:19 -Image with size attributes

21:49 -Respect EXIF image orientation default behavior

22:13 -Override image orientation to use the raw image capture

22:37 -HDR display CSS media query

22:42 -HDR display CSS media query and JavaScript matchMedia detection

23:19 -Remote Playback API example

24:20 -Picture in Picture example

27:11 -BigInt example with division examples

28:02 -Nullish coalescing operator

29:09 -JavaScript optional chaining example

29:41 -JavaScript optional chaining example

29:49 -JavaScript optional chaining with indexes

30:02 -JavaScript optional chaining with methods

30:23 -Logical assignment operators

30:44 -Nullish coalescing approach

30:52 -Logical assignment operator

30:53 -Public class fields

31:58 -String.prototype.replace example

32:09 -String.prototype.replaceAll example

33:53 -App Clips banner

## Code Samples

```swift
// Web Animations API Code Example



let
 needle = 
document
.getElementById(
"needle"
);

let
 logo = 
document
.getElementById(
"logo"
);
logo.addEventListener(
"click"
, 
() =>
 {
    needle.animate({
        
transform
: [
            
"rotateX(35deg) rotateZ(13deg)"
, 
            
"rotateX(35deg) rotateZ(733deg)"
,
        ],
        
easing
: [
"ease-out"
],
    }, 
800
);
});
```

```swift
// Resize Observer Example



let
 formatPanelObserver = 
new
 ResizeObserver(
(
entries
) =>
 {
    entries.forEach(
(
entry
) =>
 {
        
let
 container = entry.target;
        container.classList.toggle(
"small"
, entry.contentRect.width < 
175
);
   }
});

formatPanelObserver.observe(
document
.getElementById(
"format-panel"
));
```

```swift
// Programmatic copy

copyButtonElement.addEventListener(
"click"
, 
(
event
) =>
 {
    navigator.clipboard.writeText(
"Plain text to copy."
).then(
() =>
 {
       
// Successful copy

    }, 
() =>
 {
       
// Copy failed

    });
});
```

```swift
// Programmatic copy

copyButtonElement.addEventListener(
"click"
, 
(
event
) =>
 {
    navigator.clipboard.writeText(
"Plain text to copy."
).then(
() =>
 {
       
// Successful copy

    }, 
() =>
 {
       
// Copy failed

    });
});


// Programmatic paste

pasteButtonElement.addEventListener(
"click"
, 
(
event
) =>
 {
    navigator.clipboard.readText().then(
(
clipText
) =>
 {
        
document
.querySelector(
".editor"
).innerText += clipText);
    });
});
```

```swift
<
template
 
id
=
"format-button"
>

    
<
button
 
class
=
"format"
>

        
<
span
 
class
=
"icon"
>
</
span
>

        
<
span
 
class
=
"label"
>
</
span
>

    
</
button
>


</
template
>
```

```swift
let
 template = 
document
.getElementById(
"format-button"
);

window
.customElements.define(template.id, 
class
 
extends
 
HTMLElement
 
{
    
constructor
(
)
 {
        
super
();

        
this
.attachShadow({
mode
: 
"open"
});
        
let
 newButtonElement = template.content.cloneNode(
true
);

        
let
 parts = newButtonElement.querySelectorAll(
"span"
);
        parts[
0
].textContent = 
this
.getAttribute(
"data-icon"
);
        parts[
1
].textContent = 
this
.textContent;

        
this
.shadowRoot.appendChild(newButtonElement);
        
this
.addEventListener(
"click"
, 
this
.handleClick.bind(
this
));
    }
});
```

```swift
<
format-button
 
id
=
"bold"
 
data-icon
=
"B"
>
Bold
</
format-button
>


<
format-button
 
id
=
"italic"
 
data-icon
=
"I"
>
Italic
</
format-button
>


<
format-button
 
id
=
"underline"
 
data-icon
=
"U"
>
Underline
</
format-button
>


<
format-button
 
id
=
"strikethrough"
 
data-icon
=
"S"
>
Strikethrough
</
format-button
>


<
format-button
 
id
=
"paste"
 
data-icon
=
"
&#x1f4cb;
"
>
Paste
</
format-button
>
```

```swift
<
template
 
id
=
"format-button"
>

    
<
button
 
class
=
"format"
>

        
<
span
 
part
=
"icon"
 
class
=
"icon"
>
</
span
>

        
<
span
 
part
=
"label"
 
class
=
"label"
>
</
span
>

    
</
button
>


</
template
>
```

```swift
#bold::part(icon) {
    color: 
var
(
--
formatting
-
button
-
icon
-
color);
    font
-
weight: bold;
}

#italic::part(icon) {
    color: 
var
(
--
formatting
-
button
-
icon
-
color);
    font
-
style: italic;
}

#underline::part(icon) {
    color: 
var
(
--
formatting
-
button
-
icon
-
color);
    text
-
decoration: underline;
}
```

```swift
<
div
 
id
=
"editor"
 
contenteditable
=
"true"
 
enterkeyhint
=
"send"
>
</
div
>
```

```swift
font
-
family: system
-
ui;
font
-
family: ui
-
sans
-
serif;
font
-
family: ui
-
serif;
font
-
family: ui
-
monospace;
font
-
family: ui
-
rounded;
```

```swift
body {
    font
-
family: system
-
ui;
    font
-
family: ui
-
sans
-
serif;
}
```

```swift
body {
   font
-
family: ui
-
serif;
}
```

```swift
body {
   font
-
family: ui
-
monospace;
}
```

```swift
body {
   font
-
family: ui
-
rounded;
}
```

```swift
code {
    line
-
break
: auto;
}
```

```swift
code {
    line
-
break
: anywhere;
}
```

```swift
h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 {
    margin
-
top: 3em;
}

h1 
+
 h2,
h2 
+
 h3,
h3 
+
 h4,
h4 
+
 h5,
h5 
+
 h6 {
    margin
-
top: 
0
;
}
```

```swift
h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 {
    margin
-
top: 3em;
}

h1 
+
 h2, h1 
+
 h3, h1 
+
 h4, h1 
+
 h5, h1 
+
 h6,
h2 
+
 h3, h2 
+
 h3, h2 
+
 h4, h2 
+
 h5, h2 
+
 h6,
h3 
+
 h4, h3 
+
 h3, h3 
+
 h4, h3 
+
 h5, h3 
+
 h6,
h4 
+
 h5, h4 
+
 h3, h4 
+
 h4, h4 
+
 h5, h4 
+
 h6,
h5 
+
 h6, h5 
+
 h3, h5 
+
 h4, h5 
+
 h5, h5 
+
 h6 {
    margin
-
top: 
0
;
}
```

```swift
h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 {
    margin
-
top: 3em;
}

:
is
(h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6) 
+
 :
is
(h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6) {
    margin
-
top: 
0
;
}
```

```swift
:
is
(.intro, .pullquote, #hero) 
+
 p {
    text
-
transform: uppercase;
}

h2 
+
 p,
h3 
+
 p,
h4 
+
 p,
h5 
+
 p,
h6 
+
 p {
    text
-
transform: none;
}
```

```swift
:
where
(.intro, .pullquote, #hero) 
+
 p {
    text
-
transform: uppercase;
}
h2 
+
 p,
h3 
+
 p,
h4 
+
 p,
h5 
+
 p,
h6 
+
 p {
    text
-
transform: none;
}
```

```swift
<
picture
>

  
<
source
 
srcset
=
"example.webp"
 
type
=
"image/webp"
>

  
<
img
 
src
=
"example.jpg"
 
alt
=
"Example Image"
>


</
picture
>
```

```swift
<
picture
>

  
<
source
 
srcset
=
"example.webp"
 
type
=
"image/webp"
>

  
<
img
 
src
=
"example.jpg"
 
alt
=
"Example Image"
>


</
picture
>


Accept: image/webp,image/png,image/svg+xml,image/*;…
```

```swift
<
img
 
src
=
"MexicoCity.png"
>
```

```swift
<
img
 
src
=
"MexicoCity.png"
 
width
=
"560"
 
height
=
"747"
>
```

```swift
image
-
orientation: from
-
image;
```

```swift
image
-
orientation: none;
```

```swift
<
style
>


@media
 
only
 screen (
dynamic-range
: high) {
    
/* HDR-only CSS rules */

}

</
style
>
```

```swift
<
style
>


@media
 
only
 screen (
dynamic-range
: high) {
    
/* HDR-only CSS rules */

}

</
style
>



<
script
>


if
 (
window
.matchMedia(
"dynamic-range: high"
)) {
    
// HDR-specific JavaScript

}

</
script
>
```

```swift
<
video
 
id
=
"videoElement"
 
src
=
"https://site.example/video.mp4"
>
</
video
>


<
button
 
id
=
"deviceButton"
>
Send video to a remote device
</
button
>



<
script
>

    
let
 videoElement = 
document
.getElementById(
"videoElement"
);
    
let
 deviceButton = 
document
.getElementById(
"deviceButton"
);
    deviceButton.addEventListener(
"click"
, 
(
event
) =>
 {
        videoElement.remote.prompt().then(updateRemotePlaybackState);
    });

</
script
>
```

```swift
<
video
 
id
=
"videoElement"
 
src
=
"https://site.example/video.mp4"
>
</
video
>


<
button
 
id
=
"pipButton"
>
Enter picture-in-picture mode
</
button
>



<
script
>

    
let
 videoElement = 
document
.getElementById(
"videoElement"
);
    
let
 pipButton = 
document
.getElementById(
"pipButton"
);
    pipButton.addEventListener(
"click"
, 
(
event
) =>
 {
        videoElement.requestPictureInPicture().then(handlePictureInPicture);
    });

</
script
>
```

```swift
let
 bigInt = 
BigInt
(
Number
.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER);

// 9007199254740991n



console
.log(
8n
 / 
2n
);

// 4n



console
.log(
9n
 / 
2n
);

// 4n
```

```swift
class
 
Person
 
{
    
constructor
(
firstName, lastName, age
)
 {
        
this
.firstName = firstName ?? 
"Unknown"
;
        
this
.lastName = lastName ?? 
"Unknown"
;
        
this
.age = age ?? 
NaN
;
   }
}


console
.log(
new
 Person());  

// { firstName: "Unknown", lastName: "Unknown", age: NaN }



console
.log(
new
 Person(
false
, 
false
, 
true
));

// { firstName: false, lastName: false, age: true }



console
.log(
new
 Person(
"John"
, 
""
, 
0
));  

// { firstName: "John", lastName: "", age: 0 }



console
.log(
new
 Person(
"John"
, 
"Appleseed"
, 
42
));  

// { firstName: "John", lastName: "Appleseed", age: 42 }
```

```swift
class
 
Person
 
{
    
constructor
(
firstName, lastName, age
)
 {
        
this
.firstName = firstName ?? 
"Unknown"
;
        
this
.lastName = lastName ?? 
"Unknown"
;
        
this
.age = age ?? 
NaN
;
        
this
.name = { 
firstName
: 
this
.firstName, 
lastName
: 
this
.lastName };
  }
}


function
 
register
(
person
) 
{
    
// Before optional chaining

    
if
 (person !== 
undefined
 && person.name !== 
undefined
)
        
console
.log(person.name.firstName);
}

register(
new
 Person());

// undefined


register(
new
 Person(
"John"
, 
"Appleseed"
));

// "John"
```

```swift
class
 
Person
 
{
    
constructor
(
firstName, lastName, age
)
 {
        
this
.firstName = firstName ?? 
"Unknown"
;
        
this
.lastName = lastName ?? 
"Unknown"
;
        
this
.age = age ?? 
NaN
;
        
this
.name = { 
firstName
: 
this
.firstName, 
lastName
: 
this
.lastName };
  }
}


function
 
register
(
person
) 
{
    
// With optional chaining

    
console
.log(person?.name.firstName);
}

register(
new
 Person());
􀆊 
undefined


register(
new
 Person(
"John"
, 
"Appleseed"
));
􀆊 
"John"
```

```swift
// Without optional chaining


console
.log(person.children[
0
]);

// TypeError: undefined is not an object



// With optional chaining


console
.log(person.children?.[
0
]);

// undefined
```

```swift
// Without optional chaining


console
.log(person.fullName());
􀆊 
TypeError
: person.fullName is not a 
function
.


// With optional chaining


console
.log(person.fullName?.());
􀆊 
undefined
```

```swift
a &&= b 
// and assignment operator

a ||= b 
// or assignment operator

a ??= b 
// nullish assignment operator
```

```swift
// Nullish coalescing approach

element.innerHTML = element.innerHTML ?? 
"Hello World!"
```

```swift
a 
&&=
 b 
// and assignment operator

a 
||=
 b 
// or assignment operator

a 
??=
 b 
// nullish assignment operator



// Nullish coalescing approach

element.innerHTML 
=
 element.innerHTML 
??
 
"Hello World!"



// Logical assignment operator

element.innerHTML 
??=
 
"Hello World!"
```

```swift
class
 
Person
 
{
    firstName = 
""
;
    lastName = 
""
;
    age = 
NaN
;
    children = [];

    
constructor
(
firstName, lastName, age
)
 {
        
this
.firstName = firstName ?? 
"Unknown"
;
        
this
.lastName = lastName ?? 
"Unknown"
;
        
this
.age = age ?? 
NaN
;
    }
}
```

```swift
"This doesn't work, and doesn't make sense"
.
replace
 (
"doesn't"
, 
"does"
);
› 
This
 does work, and doesn
't make sense
```

```swift
"This doesn't work, and doesn't make sense"
.
replaceAll
(
"doesn't"
,

"does"
);
› 
This
 does work, and does make sense
```

```swift
<
meta
 
name
=
"apple-itunes-app"

      
content
=
"app-id=myAppStoreID,
               app-clip-bundle-id=clipBundleID,
               affiliate-data=myAffiliateData,
               app-argument=myURL"
>
```

