# Wwdc2020 10644

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Use Swift on AWS Lambda with XcodeServerless functions are increasingly becoming popular for running event-driven or otherwise ad-hoc compute tasks in the cloud, allowing developers to more easily scale and control compute costs. Discover how to use the new Swift AWS Lambda Runtime package to build serverless functions in Swift, debug locally using Xcode, and deploy these functions to the AWS Lambda platform. We'll show you how Swift shines on AWS Lambda thanks to its low memory footprint, deterministic performance, and quick start time.ResourcesIntroducing Swift AWS Lambda RuntimeSwift AWS Lambda Runtime on GitHubHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC22Use Xcode for server-side developmentWWDC21Customize your advanced Xcode Cloud workflowsWhat‘s new in Swift

Serverless functions are increasingly becoming popular for running event-driven or otherwise ad-hoc compute tasks in the cloud, allowing developers to more easily scale and control compute costs. Discover how to use the new Swift AWS Lambda Runtime package to build serverless functions in Swift, debug locally using Xcode, and deploy these functions to the AWS Lambda platform. We'll show you how Swift shines on AWS Lambda thanks to its low memory footprint, deterministic performance, and quick start time.

Introducing Swift AWS Lambda Runtime

Swift AWS Lambda Runtime on GitHub

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Use Xcode for server-side development

Customize your advanced Xcode Cloud workflows

What‘s new in Swift

Search this video…Hello and welcome to WWDC. Hello my name is Tom Doron,and today I'm thrilled to share with you a set of technologies that allowyou to build and debug surveillance functions written in Swift using Xcode.Many systems these days have client components like iOS, macOS, tvOSor watchOS applications, as well as server components. The server componentsenable client applications to extend their functionality into the cloud.For example, access data that is not available on the device, offload tasksthat can be done in the background, or offload tasks that are computationally heavy.Often, server components need to be built using different tools and different methodologies,creating a separation between the server and client engineering teams. Serverlessfunctions offer a programming model that brings the two closer together.Serverless functions are becoming an increasingly popular choice for runningevent-driven or otherwise ad-hoc compute tasks in the cloud. They resolvethe need in running dedicated resources by replacing them with a more dynamicresource allocation system. In many cases Serverless functions allow developersto more easily scale and control the compute cost, giving their On-Demandand elastic nature. AWS Lambda is an event driven Serverless computingplatform provided by Amazon as part of Amazon Web Services, and it is consideredamong the industry leaders in this space.When building a system with Serverless functions extra attention is given tocompute resource utilization, as it directly impacts the overall cost ofthe system. The combination of developer friendliness, and a low resourcefootprint, makes Swift a fantastic choice for building Serverless functions.So, given how well these two go together, we're happy to offer a Swift solutionfor building and debugging Serverless functions in Xcode and deployingthem to AWS Lambda. Let me show you what this looks like. And this isit! Only four lines of code! Let's review the API in detail. First, we importthe AWS Lambda runtime library. Next, we call Lambda.run and passing a closurethat takes a context and event payload, and a completion handler. The functioncan call the completion handler when the work is done. The closure willbe invoked as event payloads become available for you to process, and theruntime library will manage the program's lifecycle and interaction withthe underlying platform. There is also a second protocol-oriented API thatis designed for performance sensitive use cases. This API exposes thiswith NIO EventLoop underpinning, which allow the Lambda function to sharethe same thread as the networking processing stack, and so, to avoid contextswitches. This API is more powerful but it comes at a cost of cognitiveand technical complexity, as the Lambda function needs to take care to neverblock the event loop. In most cases closure based Lambda functions arethe right choice. And, in this example, you may have noticed that we're usinga request and response struct that conforms to the codable protocol providingeasy serialization to and from JSON. In most cases, Lambda payloads areJSON-based, so this represents a more typical use of the library.Now, let's see how to build and debug a Lambda function. And for that we'll switchover to Xcode. In this example which is included in the SWIFT AWSRuntime Library repository with a workspace with two projects -- aLambda and an iOS app.The Lambda is a package manager project with an executable product, anda dependency on the Swift AWS Runtime Library. If we look atthe Lambda-main-dot-swift, which is the entry point for the program, we cansee a request struct and a response struct -- similar to the ones we sawon the slide. The request struct is a user registration form with a nameand a password field. The response is a message with a simple greetingto the new user. Switching over to the iOS app, we can see a similar setupwith SwiftUI registration form with a text field for the user name anda secure field for the password, and a button that invokes a register function.The question of course is: How do we tie these two things together?How does a register function call the Lambda function on the other side?Let's try to run our Lambda function and see what happens.We hit "Run" on the MyLambda target over here, and we can see that it failed.Looking at the error, it could not fetch work from the Lambda runtime enginebecause the connection was refused. This makes sense because we're notrunning in a database on the runtime; we're running in Xcode. Luckily, thelibrary comes with a special mode that enables a simulator that simulatesthe AWS runtime engine. We can turn this on by editing the scheme,and sending an environment variable called "LOCAL_LAMBDA_SERVER_ENABLED"to true. Let's do that and try to run the Lambda again. In this case we'regetting much better results. We're seeing that the local on the serverwas started, and is listening on local host port 7000 and receivingevents on the invoke end point. That's pretty sweet. It also gives us ahint as to what we can do in the iOS application side. Let's switch overthere and try to write our register function.For this we will use a snippet we prepared up front. This snippet usesURL session to the local host address provided to us by the Lambda function,and sending the request form and then handling the response. We can add acouple of breakpoints, maybe when we're constructing the request, and aswe are handling the response we can also add a breakpoint on the on the Lambda function.Let's run our iOS application in the simulator and see what happens.We can see that Xcode is managing two processes: one for the Lambda function,and one for the iOS application. We can also see that the Lambda only takes 6.3 MBof memory. That's pretty sweet!Now, let's switch to the application in the simulator and try to register.Put in our name and our password and click the register button, and wehit the first breakpoint. This is the construction of the request.This all looks pretty good. Let's remove this break point, and continue.And now we hit the second breakpoint on the Lambda function.Here we can inspect maybe the request that we got from the client, and wesee our user name and super-secret password. It looks good as well.Remove the break point, and continue. Finally we hit the last breakpoint whenprocessing the response. We can use the lldb debugger to examine their response as well.Finally, we get our greeting showing up in the UI as expected. Awesome!But how did this work? We used Xcode to manage two processes for two executable targets.The iOS application and the Lambda function. To make the Lambda functionavailable over HTTP, we also started a local HTTP server that simulates theAWS Lambda runtime engine. We use a special environment variable to turnthis functionality on. The iOS application then used an HTTP call usingURL session to submit work to the Lambda. This setup only works locallyin debug mode. To interact with a Lambda deployed to AWS over HTTP,you need to expose it first through AWS API gateway. Now let's see howto deploy our Lambda Function. For this, we'll switch over to the terminal.To deploy our Lambda function, we can use a variety of tools provided byAWS, such as SIM or AWS CLI. In this example, which is also availableas part of the library code on GitHub, we built a small script that wrapsthe AWS CLI, and shows you the different step required to deploy the Lambdafunction to AWS. Let's run scripts.deploy and see what it does.First, we create a Docker image that is based on the Amazon Linux 2 imagepublished by Swift.org. Next, we compile the Lambda function in the Docker container,then we package the executable and all of its dependencies in a zip file,which is the expected package format. Finally, we upload the zip file to AWSand notify about the new code version. With the code updated, we can alsotest our Lambda function using the AWS CLI wrapper script. We're going tocall script.test, and see what happens. We enter our username and password, andwe get a greeting as expected. Sweet! How did this work? When we deploythe Lambda function to AWS the AWS Lambda runtime engine will controlthe program's lifecycle. The Lambda pulls the runtime engine for work, andif such work is not available, the compute resource will be hibernateduntil work is available. The iOS application command line tool or any otherclient can use an HTTP call, using URL session or otherwise, to interactwith the Lambda. To make the Lambda function available as an HTTP endpoint,you can use AWS API gateway, which routes every request it receives, to theLambda Function queue. There are also other ways to invoke Lambda functions,such as event-based triggers, which are covered by AWS' documentation.In order to make all this possible, we needed to create two main piecesof technology. The first part was getting Swift to run on Amazon Linux(a flavor of CentOS). Starting May 2020 Swift.org has begun publishingSwift toolchains for building and running Swift programs on Amazon Linux 2.The toolchain is useful in the context of many AWS compute servicesincluding EC2 and AWS Lambda. The second part was building a Swift Lambdaruntime library; an implementation of the AWS Lambda runtime API.The library provides a multi-tier API that allows building a range of Serverlessfunctions from quick and simple closures, to complex and performance sensitiveevent handlers. The program's lifecycle is managed by a Lifecycle Loop providedas part of the library. The program is designed to serve traffic forever,or until the process is terminated by the AWS platform. Long-livedprocesses can serve traffic faster by employing caching techniques such as cachingthe connection. The library also manages a state machine, representing thevarious stages of the Lambda execution; pulling work from the runtime enginequeue, submitting the work to the user-provided function, and submittingthe results back to the runtime engine. An asynchronous HTTP client thatis fine-tuned for performance in the AWS Lambda runtime context is embeddedin the library. Compiling the Lambda program produces an executable thatlinks the user provided code with the underlying runtime library, and the Swiftdependencies, and they can be linked together statically, or dynamically,depending on the need. AWS Lambda can then be configured to run asmany copies of the Serverless functions as required, and this elasticity meansthat this simple programming model can be scaled up to meet even significant demand.This also means that the Serverless functions are designed to be stateless,and care needs to be taken to avoid global mutable state, or holding ontomemory for longer than required. Finally, the runtime library includes extensibleintegration points to trigger Serverless functions based on events.For example, events from AWS systems like S3, SQS and SNS, triggers basedon HTTP endpoints exposed using AWS API gateway, or custom events that can be addedby the user. To wrap up, Serverless functions are a great way to extendyour iOS macOS, watchOS, tvOS, or any other client applicationsto the cloud. Swift is a perfect match for Serverless functions. It is fast,safe, and uses only little resources. The tools you need to build, debugand run Swift-based Serverless functions are available today. So what areyou waiting for? Go build awesome things!
Thank you for listening, and enjoy WWDC.

Hello and welcome to WWDC. Hello my name is Tom Doron,and today I'm thrilled to share with you a set of technologies that allowyou to build and debug surveillance functions written in Swift using Xcode.

Many systems these days have client components like iOS, macOS, tvOSor watchOS applications, as well as server components. The server componentsenable client applications to extend their functionality into the cloud.For example, access data that is not available on the device, offload tasksthat can be done in the background, or offload tasks that are computationally heavy.

Often, server components need to be built using different tools and different methodologies,creating a separation between the server and client engineering teams. Serverlessfunctions offer a programming model that brings the two closer together.Serverless functions are becoming an increasingly popular choice for runningevent-driven or otherwise ad-hoc compute tasks in the cloud. They resolvethe need in running dedicated resources by replacing them with a more dynamicresource allocation system. In many cases Serverless functions allow developersto more easily scale and control the compute cost, giving their On-Demandand elastic nature. AWS Lambda is an event driven Serverless computingplatform provided by Amazon as part of Amazon Web Services, and it is consideredamong the industry leaders in this space.

When building a system with Serverless functions extra attention is given tocompute resource utilization, as it directly impacts the overall cost ofthe system. The combination of developer friendliness, and a low resourcefootprint, makes Swift a fantastic choice for building Serverless functions.So, given how well these two go together, we're happy to offer a Swift solutionfor building and debugging Serverless functions in Xcode and deployingthem to AWS Lambda. Let me show you what this looks like. And this isit! Only four lines of code! Let's review the API in detail. First, we importthe AWS Lambda runtime library. Next, we call Lambda.run and passing a closurethat takes a context and event payload, and a completion handler. The functioncan call the completion handler when the work is done. The closure willbe invoked as event payloads become available for you to process, and theruntime library will manage the program's lifecycle and interaction withthe underlying platform. There is also a second protocol-oriented API thatis designed for performance sensitive use cases. This API exposes thiswith NIO EventLoop underpinning, which allow the Lambda function to sharethe same thread as the networking processing stack, and so, to avoid contextswitches. This API is more powerful but it comes at a cost of cognitiveand technical complexity, as the Lambda function needs to take care to neverblock the event loop. In most cases closure based Lambda functions arethe right choice. And, in this example, you may have noticed that we're usinga request and response struct that conforms to the codable protocol providingeasy serialization to and from JSON. In most cases, Lambda payloads areJSON-based, so this represents a more typical use of the library.Now, let's see how to build and debug a Lambda function. And for that we'll switchover to Xcode. In this example which is included in the SWIFT AWSRuntime Library repository with a workspace with two projects -- aLambda and an iOS app.

The Lambda is a package manager project with an executable product, anda dependency on the Swift AWS Runtime Library. If we look atthe Lambda-main-dot-swift, which is the entry point for the program, we cansee a request struct and a response struct -- similar to the ones we sawon the slide. The request struct is a user registration form with a nameand a password field. The response is a message with a simple greetingto the new user. Switching over to the iOS app, we can see a similar setupwith SwiftUI registration form with a text field for the user name anda secure field for the password, and a button that invokes a register function.The question of course is: How do we tie these two things together?How does a register function call the Lambda function on the other side?Let's try to run our Lambda function and see what happens.

We hit "Run" on the MyLambda target over here, and we can see that it failed.Looking at the error, it could not fetch work from the Lambda runtime enginebecause the connection was refused. This makes sense because we're notrunning in a database on the runtime; we're running in Xcode. Luckily, thelibrary comes with a special mode that enables a simulator that simulatesthe AWS runtime engine. We can turn this on by editing the scheme,and sending an environment variable called "LOCAL_LAMBDA_SERVER_ENABLED"to true. Let's do that and try to run the Lambda again. In this case we'regetting much better results. We're seeing that the local on the serverwas started, and is listening on local host port 7000 and receivingevents on the invoke end point. That's pretty sweet. It also gives us ahint as to what we can do in the iOS application side. Let's switch overthere and try to write our register function.

For this we will use a snippet we prepared up front. This snippet usesURL session to the local host address provided to us by the Lambda function,and sending the request form and then handling the response. We can add acouple of breakpoints, maybe when we're constructing the request, and aswe are handling the response we can also add a breakpoint on the on the Lambda function.

Let's run our iOS application in the simulator and see what happens.

We can see that Xcode is managing two processes: one for the Lambda function,and one for the iOS application. We can also see that the Lambda only takes 6.3 MBof memory. That's pretty sweet!Now, let's switch to the application in the simulator and try to register.

Put in our name and our password and click the register button, and wehit the first breakpoint. This is the construction of the request.This all looks pretty good. Let's remove this break point, and continue.And now we hit the second breakpoint on the Lambda function.Here we can inspect maybe the request that we got from the client, and wesee our user name and super-secret password. It looks good as well.Remove the break point, and continue. Finally we hit the last breakpoint whenprocessing the response. We can use the lldb debugger to examine their response as well.

Finally, we get our greeting showing up in the UI as expected. Awesome!But how did this work? We used Xcode to manage two processes for two executable targets.The iOS application and the Lambda function. To make the Lambda functionavailable over HTTP, we also started a local HTTP server that simulates theAWS Lambda runtime engine. We use a special environment variable to turnthis functionality on. The iOS application then used an HTTP call usingURL session to submit work to the Lambda. This setup only works locallyin debug mode. To interact with a Lambda deployed to AWS over HTTP,you need to expose it first through AWS API gateway. Now let's see howto deploy our Lambda Function. For this, we'll switch over to the terminal.

To deploy our Lambda function, we can use a variety of tools provided byAWS, such as SIM or AWS CLI. In this example, which is also availableas part of the library code on GitHub, we built a small script that wrapsthe AWS CLI, and shows you the different step required to deploy the Lambdafunction to AWS. Let's run scripts.deploy and see what it does.First, we create a Docker image that is based on the Amazon Linux 2 imagepublished by Swift.org. Next, we compile the Lambda function in the Docker container,then we package the executable and all of its dependencies in a zip file,which is the expected package format. Finally, we upload the zip file to AWSand notify about the new code version. With the code updated, we can alsotest our Lambda function using the AWS CLI wrapper script. We're going tocall script.test, and see what happens. We enter our username and password, andwe get a greeting as expected. Sweet! How did this work? When we deploythe Lambda function to AWS the AWS Lambda runtime engine will controlthe program's lifecycle. The Lambda pulls the runtime engine for work, andif such work is not available, the compute resource will be hibernateduntil work is available. The iOS application command line tool or any otherclient can use an HTTP call, using URL session or otherwise, to interactwith the Lambda. To make the Lambda function available as an HTTP endpoint,you can use AWS API gateway, which routes every request it receives, to theLambda Function queue. There are also other ways to invoke Lambda functions,such as event-based triggers, which are covered by AWS' documentation.

In order to make all this possible, we needed to create two main piecesof technology. The first part was getting Swift to run on Amazon Linux(a flavor of CentOS). Starting May 2020 Swift.org has begun publishingSwift toolchains for building and running Swift programs on Amazon Linux 2.The toolchain is useful in the context of many AWS compute servicesincluding EC2 and AWS Lambda. The second part was building a Swift Lambdaruntime library; an implementation of the AWS Lambda runtime API.The library provides a multi-tier API that allows building a range of Serverlessfunctions from quick and simple closures, to complex and performance sensitiveevent handlers. The program's lifecycle is managed by a Lifecycle Loop providedas part of the library. The program is designed to serve traffic forever,or until the process is terminated by the AWS platform. Long-livedprocesses can serve traffic faster by employing caching techniques such as cachingthe connection. The library also manages a state machine, representing thevarious stages of the Lambda execution; pulling work from the runtime enginequeue, submitting the work to the user-provided function, and submittingthe results back to the runtime engine. An asynchronous HTTP client thatis fine-tuned for performance in the AWS Lambda runtime context is embeddedin the library. Compiling the Lambda program produces an executable thatlinks the user provided code with the underlying runtime library, and the Swiftdependencies, and they can be linked together statically, or dynamically,depending on the need. AWS Lambda can then be configured to run asmany copies of the Serverless functions as required, and this elasticity meansthat this simple programming model can be scaled up to meet even significant demand.

This also means that the Serverless functions are designed to be stateless,and care needs to be taken to avoid global mutable state, or holding ontomemory for longer than required. Finally, the runtime library includes extensibleintegration points to trigger Serverless functions based on events.For example, events from AWS systems like S3, SQS and SNS, triggers basedon HTTP endpoints exposed using AWS API gateway, or custom events that can be addedby the user. To wrap up, Serverless functions are a great way to extendyour iOS macOS, watchOS, tvOS, or any other client applicationsto the cloud. Swift is a perfect match for Serverless functions. It is fast,safe, and uses only little resources. The tools you need to build, debugand run Swift-based Serverless functions are available today. So what areyou waiting for? Go build awesome things!
Thank you for listening, and enjoy WWDC.

2:02 -Closure based Lambda function

2:33 -EventLoop based Lambda function

2:59 -Closure and Codable based Lambda function

## Code Samples

```swift
import
 AWSLambdaRuntime


Lambda
.run { (
_
, name: 
String
, callback) 
in

    callback(.success(
"Hello, 
\(name)
!"
))
}
```

```swift
import
 AWSLambdaRuntime

import
 NIO


struct
 
Handler
: 
EventLoopLambdaHandler
 
{
    
typealias
 
In
 
=
 
String

    
typealias
 
Out
 
=
 
String


    
func
 
handle
(
context
: 
Lambda
.
Context
, 
event
: 
String
)
 -> 
EventLoopFuture
<
String
> {
       context.eventLoop.makeSucceededFuture(
"Hello, 
\(event)
!"
)
    }
}


Lambda
.run(
Handler
())
```

```swift
import
 AWSLambdaRuntime


struct
 
Request
: 
Codable
 
{
    
let
 name: 
String

    
let
 password: 
String

}


struct
 
Response
: 
Codable
 
{
    
let
 message: 
String

}


Lambda
.run { (
_
, request: 
Request
, callback) 
in

    callback(.success(
Response
(message: 
"Hello, 
\(request.name)
!"
)))
}
```

