# Wwdc2020 10645

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Support multiple users in your tvOS appShare your living room — not your Apple TV apps. When you support profiles within your app, you can customize your experience for each person who uses Apple TV within the same house. Discover how the “Runs as Current User” feature lets someone interact with your app, download local content, and log into iCloud or Game Center, all without affecting their family or housemates. We'll show you how to implement this capability in your app, save recent data before switching profiles, handle notifications, and safeguard privacy.

To get the most out of this session, you should have a basic understanding of modern tvOS frameworks and controls. Watching “Mastering the Living Room with tvOS” will give you a great overview.ResourcesHuman Interface Guidelines: Designing for tvOSPersonalizing Your App for Each User on Apple TVSupporting Multiple Users in Your tvOS AppHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC22Support multiple users in tvOS apps

Share your living room — not your Apple TV apps. When you support profiles within your app, you can customize your experience for each person who uses Apple TV within the same house. Discover how the “Runs as Current User” feature lets someone interact with your app, download local content, and log into iCloud or Game Center, all without affecting their family or housemates. We'll show you how to implement this capability in your app, save recent data before switching profiles, handle notifications, and safeguard privacy.

To get the most out of this session, you should have a basic understanding of modern tvOS frameworks and controls. Watching “Mastering the Living Room with tvOS” will give you a great overview.

Human Interface Guidelines: Designing for tvOS

Personalizing Your App for Each User on Apple TV

Supporting Multiple Users in Your tvOS App

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Support multiple users in tvOS apps

Search this video…Hello, and welcome to WWDC.Hi, my name is Caleb.I'm a software engineer on the tvOS team.Today, I'm excited to share with you a great new wayfor your apps to support multiple users on Apple TV.Apple TV is designed to be used by everyone in your home.And we think it's really importantthat everyone who uses Apple TV is able to accessall of their own content and data.In tvOS 13, we made switching users easyby adding fast user switching right in Control Center.We also added the TVUserManager API,so apps can link their own user profileswith users on the device.So if your app has its own user profiles,I encourage you to watch"Mastering the Living Room with tvOS"from WWDC 2019, so you can learn how TVUserManagercan help you take people right to their content.But what if your app doesn't have its own user profiles?What if you want to store separate datafor each user instead?Today, tvOS apps have access to a single set of resourcesfor the entire device.That means things like iCloud, Game Center, and Local Storagefor your app's data are the same no matter who is using Apple TV.But wouldn't it be great if your app knew who is using itso you could create a personalized user interfaceand access data from their other devices using iCloud.In tvOS 14, we're making it really easyfor your apps to do exactly that.Now each person who uses your app will have accessto all of their own data in iCloud,Achievements, and Friends, and Game Center,and even their own local data and preferences.And because your apps can access data in each user's iCloud,everyone using Apple TVwill now be able to start a game on their iPhone,continue playing on Apple TV, and easily sync their progressacross all of their other devices.Let's talk about how this works.When your app declares support from multiple users in tvOS 14,you'll be given access to accounts and storagefor the selected user.When a new user is selected,you're rapidly given a chance to save any unsaved data,then it'll be terminated.If your app was running in the foregroundwhen a new user was selected,it will be automatically relaunched for the new user.So far, I've only mentioned iCloud and Game Center by name,but I'm happy to share that all of the API we providefor storing data, both locally on Apple TV and in the cloud,support storing individual user data.And the best part is you don't have to make any code changes.You can keep using all of the API you're already usingto read and write dataand the system will take care of the rest.By now, you're probably excited to learnhow to enable this for your apps.Only three things you need to do to support multiple usersin your tvOS apps.I'm going to go over them with you nowstarting with the User Management capability.In tvOS 14 and Xcode 12,we have a new Runs as Current User optionin the User Management capability.This tells the system that you want your appto be able to support multiple users.You can add User Management capability by navigatingto your app's Signing & Capabilities editor in Xcode.And when you add this to your app target in Xcode 12,the Runs as Current User option will be selected by default.Next, I'd like to talk about the changesto the application lifecycle.Earlier I mentioned that when a selected user changes,your app will be terminated.If your app is currently running,you'll want to make sure you save any unsaved databefore your process exits.You can do that by implementing applicationWillTerminatein your app delegate.And note, you're given a limited amount of time to perform taskswhen this function is called.So be sure to do as little work as possibleto save any user data.Let's take a look at an example.Here I implemented applicationWillTerminatein my app delegate,First, I check whether my game has any changesthat need to be saved.If not, it's best to return right awayso the system may continue switching users.Next, I ask my game to save any unsaved databoth locally and to CloudKit.Once this function returns,the system is free to terminate my process and switch users.So I'm using a semaphore to keep it running long enoughto save data asyncronously.There's one last change you may have to makeif your app uses CloudKit subscription notifications.When your app supports multiple users,it may get CloudKit notifications for other userson the device who've used your app.To help make your app more efficient,you should check the newsubscriptionOwnerUserRecordID property on seeking notificationand compare it with the Record ID of the current CloudKit user.If notification was meant for a different user,it can be safely discarded.In this example, I implemented the applicationdidReceiveRemoteNotification function in my app delegate.I start by initializing a seeking notification objectfromRemoteNotificationDictionary : userInfo.Next I checked the notification .subscriptionOwnerUserRecordIDand make sure it's equal to my game object'scurrentUserRecordID.Once I know this notification is meant for the current user,I tell my game object to handle notificationand call the completion handler. That's it.That's all you need to do to prepare your appto support multiple users in tvOS 14.And now I'd like to show you a demo.Here I have a simple game that I ran from Xcode.This game syncs all its data with iCloud usingNSPersistentCloudKitContainer.The main menu allows me to resume the gameI started playing earlier and to view my fastest solve timesfrom previous games.Right now my high score is one minute and nine seconds.If I select Resume Game,you can see the current state of the game board.I can flip over tiles to try to find matching Memoji.Now my friend Felipe wants to playand show off his high score.He opens Control Center and switches to his user.But the game stays the same. That's not very exciting.Let's see what we can do about that.Here I have the Xcode project for my game.I'm going to show you how easy it is to add supportfrom multiple users to your tvOS app or game.First you'll navigate to the Signing & Capabilities editorof your app target.Next, you'll add the User Management capability.And last, you'll make surethe Runs as Current User option is selected.That's it. Let's build and run and switch back to Apple TV.If I resume my game or view my high scoresyou can see the same game data that I showed you earlier.But now let's see what happens when I switch users.Notice that the game was terminated,the system switched users,and the game was relaunched for Felipe.Now when Felipe plays the game, he sees his own data.He doesn't have an in-progress game yet,so he has an option to start a new game with no matches.And notice his high score of 39 seconds is faster than mine.Again, all this data is synced with iCloudand is kept completely separate for each user.And I didn't have to make any code changes to support this.We are really excited for your games and appsto take full advantage of multiple users in tvOS 14.To wrap up the new Runs as Current User optionand the User Management capability allows your appsto easily support multiple users in tvOS 14.You can use existing API to store separate datafor each person using your app with no code changes required.This allows you to take full advantageof multiple users on Apple TVand provide everyone with a seamless experiencewhen they use your app across all their devices.Thanks for watching and enjoy
the rest of the conference.

Hello, and welcome to WWDC.

Hi, my name is Caleb.

I'm a software engineer on the tvOS team.

Today, I'm excited to share with you a great new wayfor your apps to support multiple users on Apple TV.

Apple TV is designed to be used by everyone in your home.

And we think it's really importantthat everyone who uses Apple TV is able to accessall of their own content and data.

In tvOS 13, we made switching users easyby adding fast user switching right in Control Center.

We also added the TVUserManager API,so apps can link their own user profileswith users on the device.

So if your app has its own user profiles,I encourage you to watch"Mastering the Living Room with tvOS"from WWDC 2019, so you can learn how TVUserManagercan help you take people right to their content.

But what if your app doesn't have its own user profiles?What if you want to store separate datafor each user instead?Today, tvOS apps have access to a single set of resourcesfor the entire device.

That means things like iCloud, Game Center, and Local Storagefor your app's data are the same no matter who is using Apple TV.

But wouldn't it be great if your app knew who is using itso you could create a personalized user interfaceand access data from their other devices using iCloud.

In tvOS 14, we're making it really easyfor your apps to do exactly that.

Now each person who uses your app will have accessto all of their own data in iCloud,Achievements, and Friends, and Game Center,and even their own local data and preferences.

And because your apps can access data in each user's iCloud,everyone using Apple TVwill now be able to start a game on their iPhone,continue playing on Apple TV, and easily sync their progressacross all of their other devices.

Let's talk about how this works.

When your app declares support from multiple users in tvOS 14,you'll be given access to accounts and storagefor the selected user.

When a new user is selected,you're rapidly given a chance to save any unsaved data,then it'll be terminated.

If your app was running in the foregroundwhen a new user was selected,it will be automatically relaunched for the new user.

So far, I've only mentioned iCloud and Game Center by name,but I'm happy to share that all of the API we providefor storing data, both locally on Apple TV and in the cloud,support storing individual user data.

And the best part is you don't have to make any code changes.

You can keep using all of the API you're already usingto read and write dataand the system will take care of the rest.

By now, you're probably excited to learnhow to enable this for your apps.

Only three things you need to do to support multiple usersin your tvOS apps.

I'm going to go over them with you nowstarting with the User Management capability.

In tvOS 14 and Xcode 12,we have a new Runs as Current User optionin the User Management capability.

This tells the system that you want your appto be able to support multiple users.

You can add User Management capability by navigatingto your app's Signing & Capabilities editor in Xcode.

And when you add this to your app target in Xcode 12,the Runs as Current User option will be selected by default.

Next, I'd like to talk about the changesto the application lifecycle.

Earlier I mentioned that when a selected user changes,your app will be terminated.

If your app is currently running,you'll want to make sure you save any unsaved databefore your process exits.

You can do that by implementing applicationWillTerminatein your app delegate.

And note, you're given a limited amount of time to perform taskswhen this function is called.

So be sure to do as little work as possibleto save any user data.

Let's take a look at an example.

Here I implemented applicationWillTerminatein my app delegate,First, I check whether my game has any changesthat need to be saved.

If not, it's best to return right awayso the system may continue switching users.

Next, I ask my game to save any unsaved databoth locally and to CloudKit.

Once this function returns,the system is free to terminate my process and switch users.

So I'm using a semaphore to keep it running long enoughto save data asyncronously.

There's one last change you may have to makeif your app uses CloudKit subscription notifications.

When your app supports multiple users,it may get CloudKit notifications for other userson the device who've used your app.

To help make your app more efficient,you should check the newsubscriptionOwnerUserRecordID property on seeking notificationand compare it with the Record ID of the current CloudKit user.

If notification was meant for a different user,it can be safely discarded.

In this example, I implemented the applicationdidReceiveRemoteNotification function in my app delegate.

I start by initializing a seeking notification objectfromRemoteNotificationDictionary : userInfo.

Next I checked the notification .subscriptionOwnerUserRecordIDand make sure it's equal to my game object'scurrentUserRecordID.

Once I know this notification is meant for the current user,I tell my game object to handle notificationand call the completion handler. That's it.

That's all you need to do to prepare your appto support multiple users in tvOS 14.

And now I'd like to show you a demo.

Here I have a simple game that I ran from Xcode.

This game syncs all its data with iCloud usingNSPersistentCloudKitContainer.

The main menu allows me to resume the gameI started playing earlier and to view my fastest solve timesfrom previous games.

Right now my high score is one minute and nine seconds.

If I select Resume Game,you can see the current state of the game board.

I can flip over tiles to try to find matching Memoji.

Now my friend Felipe wants to playand show off his high score.

He opens Control Center and switches to his user.

But the game stays the same. That's not very exciting.

Let's see what we can do about that.

Here I have the Xcode project for my game.

I'm going to show you how easy it is to add supportfrom multiple users to your tvOS app or game.

First you'll navigate to the Signing & Capabilities editorof your app target.

Next, you'll add the User Management capability.

And last, you'll make surethe Runs as Current User option is selected.

That's it. Let's build and run and switch back to Apple TV.

If I resume my game or view my high scoresyou can see the same game data that I showed you earlier.

But now let's see what happens when I switch users.

Notice that the game was terminated,the system switched users,and the game was relaunched for Felipe.

Now when Felipe plays the game, he sees his own data.

He doesn't have an in-progress game yet,so he has an option to start a new game with no matches.

And notice his high score of 39 seconds is faster than mine.

Again, all this data is synced with iCloudand is kept completely separate for each user.

And I didn't have to make any code changes to support this.

We are really excited for your games and appsto take full advantage of multiple users in tvOS 14.

To wrap up the new Runs as Current User optionand the User Management capability allows your appsto easily support multiple users in tvOS 14.

You can use existing API to store separate datafor each person using your app with no code changes required.

This allows you to take full advantageof multiple users on Apple TVand provide everyone with a seamless experiencewhen they use your app across all their devices.

Thanks for watching and enjoy
the rest of the conference.

4:15 -Application Lifecycle

5:17 -CloudKit Notifications

## Code Samples

```swift
func
 
applicationWillTerminate
(
_
 
application
: 
UIApplication
)
 {
    
guard
 game.hasUnsavedChanges 
else
 { 
return
 }

    
let
 semaphore 
=
 
DispatchSemaphore
(value: 
0
)
    game.save { 
_
 
in
 semaphore.signal() }
    semaphore.wait()
}
```

```swift
func
 
application
(
    
_
 
application
: 
UIApplication
,
    
didReceiveRemoteNotification
 
userInfo
: [
AnyHashable
 : 
Any
],
    
fetchCompletionHandler
 
completionHandler
: 
@escaping
 (
UIBackgroundFetchResult
) -> 
Void

)
 {
    
if
 
let
 notification 
=
 
CKNotification
(fromRemoteNotificationDictionary: userInfo),
       notification.subscriptionOwnerUserRecordID 
==
 game.currentUserRecordID {
        game.handle(notification, completionHandler: completionHandler)
    }
    
else
 {
        completionHandler(.noData)
    }
}
```

