# Wwdc2020 10222

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Create custom apps for employeesBuild enterprise apps for your employees to help them solve problems and streamline everyday tasks. See how to build custom apps designed for your workforce. Learn how to identify great mobile use cases, have your employees drive the design process, use key Apple frameworks, and rapidly iterate with Xcode.ResourcesHD VideoSD Video

Build enterprise apps for your employees to help them solve problems and streamline everyday tasks. See how to build custom apps designed for your workforce. Learn how to identify great mobile use cases, have your employees drive the design process, use key Apple frameworks, and rapidly iterate with Xcode.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Search this video…Hello and welcome to WWDC. Hi my name is Adam Humphrey, and here atApple I'm on a team that works with enterprise companies all around theworld to help them create great custom apps for their employees. And todayI'm happy to share some of our knowledge to help you do the same.Apps have changed the way we live our lives. People now expect the same changeat work. At Apple, we believe employees should have access to apps thatallow them to do their best work and fundamentally improve how things get done.So let's begin. I'll start by describing some of the characteristics thatare unique to enterprise apps. Then I'll talk about how to find opportunitiesin employee roles that are best served by custom apps. And next I'll talkabout the importance of not just including your employees in the designand development process but enabling them to drive it. And finally I'lltalk about the tools Apple has developed to help you build custom appsquickly, get them in the hands of your employees and continuously improvewith their feedback. All right, so let's dive right in. First let me talkabout some of the characteristics of an enterprise app. Simply stated, enterpriseapps are employee facing and these apps are as unique as the employeeswho use them. Another characteristic is that many of them aren't foundin the public App store. Enterprise apps are mostly distributed internallyby the enterprises themselves using MDM and Apple business manager.Some enterprise apps are used by a lot of employees. Like this, company directoryapp which allows you to easily search for your colleagues see their availabilityand quickly connect with them. Or this conference room app that can findthe closest available conference room and allows you to book it with justone tap. Some are role-based, tailored to very discreet groups of employees.For example this sales associate app has specific information and uniqueworkflows that help sales associates with clienteling, task management,corporate communications and other workflows they need to do their job.And still others are part of a group of apps that seamlessly work togetherto create unique workflows that best support many different employee jobs.For example a sales associate app can work with a runner app which helpsemployees get stock from storage locations and make sure they get the rightitem in the fastest route possible. A product catalog app, that can be usedby many different employees to view new product arrivals, inventory andavailability, and these apps can share data seamlessly between each otherenabling unique workflows and of course with single sign on, app groupsand key chain, when you sign into one app you're automatically signed intothe entire group of apps, reducing time to get things done. Something thatall good enterprise apps have in common? They improve an employee's job.These apps should reduce their workload and the amount of mental energyneeded to accomplish a task rather than only being used to gather datafor a business. This can be as simple as replacing a paper based workflowand as complex as helping a pilot fly a state of the art airplane. So nowyou have a better understanding of some of the characteristics of an enterprise app.I want to talk to you a little bit about some of the ways to identify whichemployees would be best served by these types of apps. As you know, notall employees are at their desk from 9:00 to 5:00. Some employees do thework on the go and at many different locations during the day. These mobileemployees are often helped by apps that include way-finding, enabling themto easily navigate to their next job. This might even include how longit will take to get to their next job, especially when take into accounttraffic and weather conditions. Most enterprise apps allow people to workeven when there's no network available. And with location services,these apps can vastly improve data accuracy and reporting. Power line maintenance technicianswho work in very difficult and remote terrain have benefited from these apps.At times many miles from cell service. They replace their heavy cumbersomeequipment with iPads, iPhones, and Apple Watches which reduce the amountof equipment they had to carry around. And the Apple Watch app enables themto do some workflows right from the wrist saving a lot of time and effortand improving overall work quality and employee satisfaction. And whatabout the parts of your business that are still run primarily on paper.Jobs with paper heavy processes are often ripe with app opportunities.One industry that's experienced this paper to digital transformation was aviation.For years airline pilots carried briefcases with reams of papers and documentscontaining all their flight information. After the invention of the iPad,some of the very first pilot apps enabled pilots to store thousands of chartsand documents on an iPad instead of paper carried in their large briefcase.These apps had huge impacts on all types of pilots, from international commercialpilots, all the way to flight instructors. The positive impacts of theseapps was felt industry wide. Now some employees they carry around scanners, cameras, G.P.S.devices, measuring devices, audio and video recorders. These are all oftengreat opportunities for an enterprise app. The iPhone and iPad are extremelysophisticated pieces of hardware. An insurance claim adjuster used to carryaround a laptop, a voice recorder, a tape measure, a digital camera. With anapp design specific for the workflow. Now they can do the majority of theirwork right on an iPad. Sometimes it's extremely helpful for an employeeto action on something right away without the need to make a phone call,send an email or even launch an app. There are incredible opportunitiesfor you to create simple but powerful workflows by customizing notifications.By using notification content extensions, you can create custom workflowsthat an employee can use right from within the notification, making someworkflows as easy as a glance and a tap. When corporate pilots saw this theywere ecstatic. This simple rich notification shows leg information andweather conditions and with a glance the pilots can easily know if they'dbe home for dinner or if they'd be gone for a day or two. Not to mentionwhat clothes they should pack, without the need to launch an app.they can quickly accept or decline new trip assignmentsright from this rich notification, and with notification extensions the company dispatchers know which pilots have received these notificationsThis is especially useful if your workforce is flying all around the globeand not always connected to a networkAnd speaking of networks, withWi-Fi Bluetooth and cellular networks you can create processes that allowmultiple employees to collaborate effortlessly. With iPad inspectors canseamlessly work together deep in subway tunnels even without cellular connectivityusing technologies like Bluetooth and I-Beacon. Teams can streamline inspections quickly,accessing information required to locate identify and complete inspections.These are just a few of the examples of great opportunities for enterprise apps.Start looking for these opportunities in your own organization and allowthe people doing the actual work to drive the process of design.Let's talk about that now. It's incredibly important to allow the employees whodo the job to drive the design process and that usually starts with interviewingthem and observing them in their jobs.Try to understand their pain points. The blockers that keep them from doingtheir best work. You should seek a diversity of input by interviewing anemployee who's new to the role, a veteran employee, an employee somewherein between. Bring these employees together and interview them at the same time.This way you give them the opportunity to dialogue about their differentperspectives of the work they do. You then use these rich insights to informthe app you build. You'll find that the veteran employee may have theirown work arounds based on years of experience and a new employee,they may have recently gone through employee training and they can share howthe process is supposed to be done by the book and they'll point out whereprocesses are difficult to learn and where an app might make it easier.You might be encouraged to involve a manager, a director or a subject matterexpert instead of the actual employees who do the job day in and day out.Instead prioritize direct experience and get the details from the peoplewho actually fly the plane so to speak, rather than relying on the inputfrom employees who can be more focused on the ideal or approved processrather than the realities of the job that needs to be done. This even includesthose managers who used to be on the job for many years before they becamea manager. Stick with the employees who, if they weren't talking to youwould be doing the actual work. It's also very important to get a holisticunderstanding of the employees role. Have them talk about a standard dayin their life. Have them discuss their entire day, not just the 9 to 5.Sometimes you'll find work gets done over their morning coffee. Includingtheir entire day and your discussion enables you to find blockers thatmay not be obvious once they are on the job. This will help you understandwhat features go into this app and where other opportunities lie. You mayeven find you weren't solving their biggest pain points. We once startedinterviewing a sales associate for a new mobile point of sale app and duringthe course of that interview we discovered all their immediate needs werein clienteling, not the point of sale. This allowed us to pivot earlyand ultimately create an app with much greater impact. All right. So nowyou have a holistic understanding of the employees work and have confidenceyou've focused on the right problem. It's time to dive into the details.Understanding the exact steps in employees workflow and getting to theroot of their challenges, is key to truly designing an app that improvestheir work. Be sure to qualify the response with the others who do thesame job. For example you can say "Hey Dan, what Rebecca just set about tracking mileage.Is that the same for you? Or do you track mileage differently?". I want totalk about a few very important tips that can really have a positive impacton the information you get from your employees during these interviews.Make sure it's a safe place for open communication with no managers toinfluence their responses. You want the unvarnished truth. When an employeechanges their answer to that of a manager or is watching their managerfor validation, you can be assured you're not getting the whole truth.You are there to gain insight and help improve their lives at work.Sometimes you might catch yourself subconsciously filling in the details as theytell you their story. Don't assume anything. Always ask for clarificationwhen things seem vague. Hey, even ask for clarification if things seemobvious. You'll be surprised how much of what you infer ends up being wayoff the mark. And don't forget to constantly ask why. Continue to ask clarifying questions.Remember that the majority of employees will be stuck in what they wantto fix in their current workflows today. And it isn't always easy for themto step back and look at the larger problem, or even recognize that thereis a problem. Not to mention imagine a future state when they have the app.For example think about how store managers may not be able to talk abouta future state of shift scheduling until their sales associates are ableto swap shifts in sales associate app. And the final and most important tip.You must always have empathy for the employees you interview. You are thereto get all the information you need to solve their problems and allow themto drive the design process. Put yourself in their shoes and try your bestto feel their pain. I once interviewed an employee for a large transportationcompany and he was so ecstatic to have an empathetic ear to talk to you.He said in his 30 plus years of working at that company this was the veryfirst time he truly felt like his knowledge and experience was going toimprove the work of his colleagues all around the world. That really hit home.So what next. The fastest way to get an app in the hands of your employeesis to optimize your design and development time. Developing and testingin Xcode is the fastest way to decrease time to a deployment. Apple providesyou with very powerful tools in Xcode to build and test apps. Use theseto streamline your development and testing activities and get the app in thehands of your employees as quickly as possible. Gone are the days of threeyear design and development cycles for a single gigantic app that triesto be everything to everyone. Small and focused and always evolving is theticket to creating solutions that continually improve and adjust to changing roles.Using standard views and controls can save you a lot of design and development time.And these design patterns are easily recognized and understood by Apple users.So the need for training and support is greatly reduced. This doesn't meanyour app can't be beautiful or elegant. On the contrary it just means tryto keep custom controls to a minimum so your users don't have to learna whole bunch of new interactions or navigation paradigms when they firstuse your app. Next keep it focused. It's perfectly ok to create a focusedapp that delivers initial value for your employees and later grows to addmany more features and workflows. Bottom line keep your app focused andalways evolving. This is the best way to make sure your app is always usefulto your employees. And please don't forget to leverage tools like TestFlight.TestFlight helps you beta test versions of your app and get constant feedbackfrom your employees. Not only when you're building the first release butalso when you start adding additional features and workflows. And rememberyour employees should be driving the design process. So continue to getfeedback from them as you design and develop your app. Does this app solvetheir problems? If not continue to iterate until it does. If it does whatcan you do to make it even better. You'll quickly learn what features orapps to build next. This allows your organization to organically buildproduct roadmaps and continually iterate apps to adjust to changing roles and responsibilities.Remember my earlier example about pilots using iPads to replace their papercharts and documents? Those same apps today, they are very sophisticatedand some even use data from planes avionics systems to create custom realtime procedures based on that information.It's amazing how far these apps have evolved with constant feedback fromthe pilots that use them. Throughout this session, we've reviewed employeeapp characteristics and how they help your employees do their best work.Found key areas for app opportunities such as mobile employees and paper processes.Walk through the ways you can have your employees drive the design processto ensure your apps are impactful. And finally how to quickly build andrelease your app and then keep improving them over time. These learningswill help you on your journey designing and developing great custom appsfor your employees. We can't wait to see what you come up with and pleaseknow the work you do. These apps you create, they can fundamentally improvethe lives of your employees at work. Trust me I've seen it many times beforeand it's always inspiring.I wish you luck. Thank you.
And have a great WWDC.

Hello and welcome to WWDC. Hi my name is Adam Humphrey, and here atApple I'm on a team that works with enterprise companies all around theworld to help them create great custom apps for their employees. And todayI'm happy to share some of our knowledge to help you do the same.Apps have changed the way we live our lives. People now expect the same changeat work. At Apple, we believe employees should have access to apps thatallow them to do their best work and fundamentally improve how things get done.So let's begin. I'll start by describing some of the characteristics thatare unique to enterprise apps. Then I'll talk about how to find opportunitiesin employee roles that are best served by custom apps. And next I'll talkabout the importance of not just including your employees in the designand development process but enabling them to drive it. And finally I'lltalk about the tools Apple has developed to help you build custom appsquickly, get them in the hands of your employees and continuously improvewith their feedback. All right, so let's dive right in. First let me talkabout some of the characteristics of an enterprise app. Simply stated, enterpriseapps are employee facing and these apps are as unique as the employeeswho use them. Another characteristic is that many of them aren't foundin the public App store. Enterprise apps are mostly distributed internallyby the enterprises themselves using MDM and Apple business manager.Some enterprise apps are used by a lot of employees. Like this, company directoryapp which allows you to easily search for your colleagues see their availabilityand quickly connect with them. Or this conference room app that can findthe closest available conference room and allows you to book it with justone tap. Some are role-based, tailored to very discreet groups of employees.

For example this sales associate app has specific information and uniqueworkflows that help sales associates with clienteling, task management,corporate communications and other workflows they need to do their job.And still others are part of a group of apps that seamlessly work togetherto create unique workflows that best support many different employee jobs.For example a sales associate app can work with a runner app which helpsemployees get stock from storage locations and make sure they get the rightitem in the fastest route possible. A product catalog app, that can be usedby many different employees to view new product arrivals, inventory andavailability, and these apps can share data seamlessly between each otherenabling unique workflows and of course with single sign on, app groupsand key chain, when you sign into one app you're automatically signed intothe entire group of apps, reducing time to get things done. Something thatall good enterprise apps have in common? They improve an employee's job.

These apps should reduce their workload and the amount of mental energyneeded to accomplish a task rather than only being used to gather datafor a business. This can be as simple as replacing a paper based workflowand as complex as helping a pilot fly a state of the art airplane. So nowyou have a better understanding of some of the characteristics of an enterprise app.

I want to talk to you a little bit about some of the ways to identify whichemployees would be best served by these types of apps. As you know, notall employees are at their desk from 9:00 to 5:00. Some employees do thework on the go and at many different locations during the day. These mobileemployees are often helped by apps that include way-finding, enabling themto easily navigate to their next job. This might even include how longit will take to get to their next job, especially when take into accounttraffic and weather conditions. Most enterprise apps allow people to workeven when there's no network available. And with location services,these apps can vastly improve data accuracy and reporting. Power line maintenance technicianswho work in very difficult and remote terrain have benefited from these apps.At times many miles from cell service. They replace their heavy cumbersomeequipment with iPads, iPhones, and Apple Watches which reduce the amountof equipment they had to carry around. And the Apple Watch app enables themto do some workflows right from the wrist saving a lot of time and effortand improving overall work quality and employee satisfaction. And whatabout the parts of your business that are still run primarily on paper.Jobs with paper heavy processes are often ripe with app opportunities.

One industry that's experienced this paper to digital transformation was aviation.

For years airline pilots carried briefcases with reams of papers and documentscontaining all their flight information. After the invention of the iPad,some of the very first pilot apps enabled pilots to store thousands of chartsand documents on an iPad instead of paper carried in their large briefcase.

These apps had huge impacts on all types of pilots, from international commercialpilots, all the way to flight instructors. The positive impacts of theseapps was felt industry wide. Now some employees they carry around scanners, cameras, G.P.S.devices, measuring devices, audio and video recorders. These are all oftengreat opportunities for an enterprise app. The iPhone and iPad are extremelysophisticated pieces of hardware. An insurance claim adjuster used to carryaround a laptop, a voice recorder, a tape measure, a digital camera. With anapp design specific for the workflow. Now they can do the majority of theirwork right on an iPad. Sometimes it's extremely helpful for an employeeto action on something right away without the need to make a phone call,send an email or even launch an app. There are incredible opportunitiesfor you to create simple but powerful workflows by customizing notifications.By using notification content extensions, you can create custom workflowsthat an employee can use right from within the notification, making someworkflows as easy as a glance and a tap. When corporate pilots saw this theywere ecstatic. This simple rich notification shows leg information andweather conditions and with a glance the pilots can easily know if they'dbe home for dinner or if they'd be gone for a day or two. Not to mentionwhat clothes they should pack, without the need to launch an app.they can quickly accept or decline new trip assignmentsright from this rich notification, and with notification extensions the company dispatchers know which pilots have received these notificationsThis is especially useful if your workforce is flying all around the globeand not always connected to a networkAnd speaking of networks, withWi-Fi Bluetooth and cellular networks you can create processes that allowmultiple employees to collaborate effortlessly. With iPad inspectors canseamlessly work together deep in subway tunnels even without cellular connectivityusing technologies like Bluetooth and I-Beacon. Teams can streamline inspections quickly,accessing information required to locate identify and complete inspections.

These are just a few of the examples of great opportunities for enterprise apps.Start looking for these opportunities in your own organization and allowthe people doing the actual work to drive the process of design.Let's talk about that now. It's incredibly important to allow the employees whodo the job to drive the design process and that usually starts with interviewingthem and observing them in their jobs.

Try to understand their pain points. The blockers that keep them from doingtheir best work. You should seek a diversity of input by interviewing anemployee who's new to the role, a veteran employee, an employee somewherein between. Bring these employees together and interview them at the same time.This way you give them the opportunity to dialogue about their differentperspectives of the work they do. You then use these rich insights to informthe app you build. You'll find that the veteran employee may have theirown work arounds based on years of experience and a new employee,they may have recently gone through employee training and they can share howthe process is supposed to be done by the book and they'll point out whereprocesses are difficult to learn and where an app might make it easier.

You might be encouraged to involve a manager, a director or a subject matterexpert instead of the actual employees who do the job day in and day out.Instead prioritize direct experience and get the details from the peoplewho actually fly the plane so to speak, rather than relying on the inputfrom employees who can be more focused on the ideal or approved processrather than the realities of the job that needs to be done. This even includesthose managers who used to be on the job for many years before they becamea manager. Stick with the employees who, if they weren't talking to youwould be doing the actual work. It's also very important to get a holisticunderstanding of the employees role. Have them talk about a standard dayin their life. Have them discuss their entire day, not just the 9 to 5.Sometimes you'll find work gets done over their morning coffee. Includingtheir entire day and your discussion enables you to find blockers thatmay not be obvious once they are on the job. This will help you understandwhat features go into this app and where other opportunities lie. You mayeven find you weren't solving their biggest pain points. We once startedinterviewing a sales associate for a new mobile point of sale app and duringthe course of that interview we discovered all their immediate needs werein clienteling, not the point of sale. This allowed us to pivot earlyand ultimately create an app with much greater impact. All right. So nowyou have a holistic understanding of the employees work and have confidenceyou've focused on the right problem. It's time to dive into the details.Understanding the exact steps in employees workflow and getting to theroot of their challenges, is key to truly designing an app that improvestheir work. Be sure to qualify the response with the others who do thesame job. For example you can say "Hey Dan, what Rebecca just set about tracking mileage.Is that the same for you? Or do you track mileage differently?". I want totalk about a few very important tips that can really have a positive impacton the information you get from your employees during these interviews.

Make sure it's a safe place for open communication with no managers toinfluence their responses. You want the unvarnished truth. When an employeechanges their answer to that of a manager or is watching their managerfor validation, you can be assured you're not getting the whole truth.

You are there to gain insight and help improve their lives at work.Sometimes you might catch yourself subconsciously filling in the details as theytell you their story. Don't assume anything. Always ask for clarificationwhen things seem vague. Hey, even ask for clarification if things seemobvious. You'll be surprised how much of what you infer ends up being wayoff the mark. And don't forget to constantly ask why. Continue to ask clarifying questions.Remember that the majority of employees will be stuck in what they wantto fix in their current workflows today. And it isn't always easy for themto step back and look at the larger problem, or even recognize that thereis a problem. Not to mention imagine a future state when they have the app.

For example think about how store managers may not be able to talk abouta future state of shift scheduling until their sales associates are ableto swap shifts in sales associate app. And the final and most important tip.You must always have empathy for the employees you interview. You are thereto get all the information you need to solve their problems and allow themto drive the design process. Put yourself in their shoes and try your bestto feel their pain. I once interviewed an employee for a large transportationcompany and he was so ecstatic to have an empathetic ear to talk to you.He said in his 30 plus years of working at that company this was the veryfirst time he truly felt like his knowledge and experience was going toimprove the work of his colleagues all around the world. That really hit home.

So what next. The fastest way to get an app in the hands of your employeesis to optimize your design and development time. Developing and testingin Xcode is the fastest way to decrease time to a deployment. Apple providesyou with very powerful tools in Xcode to build and test apps. Use theseto streamline your development and testing activities and get the app in thehands of your employees as quickly as possible. Gone are the days of threeyear design and development cycles for a single gigantic app that triesto be everything to everyone. Small and focused and always evolving is theticket to creating solutions that continually improve and adjust to changing roles.

Using standard views and controls can save you a lot of design and development time.And these design patterns are easily recognized and understood by Apple users.So the need for training and support is greatly reduced. This doesn't meanyour app can't be beautiful or elegant. On the contrary it just means tryto keep custom controls to a minimum so your users don't have to learna whole bunch of new interactions or navigation paradigms when they firstuse your app. Next keep it focused. It's perfectly ok to create a focusedapp that delivers initial value for your employees and later grows to addmany more features and workflows. Bottom line keep your app focused andalways evolving. This is the best way to make sure your app is always usefulto your employees. And please don't forget to leverage tools like TestFlight.TestFlight helps you beta test versions of your app and get constant feedbackfrom your employees. Not only when you're building the first release butalso when you start adding additional features and workflows. And rememberyour employees should be driving the design process. So continue to getfeedback from them as you design and develop your app. Does this app solvetheir problems? If not continue to iterate until it does. If it does whatcan you do to make it even better. You'll quickly learn what features orapps to build next. This allows your organization to organically buildproduct roadmaps and continually iterate apps to adjust to changing roles and responsibilities.

Remember my earlier example about pilots using iPads to replace their papercharts and documents? Those same apps today, they are very sophisticatedand some even use data from planes avionics systems to create custom realtime procedures based on that information.

It's amazing how far these apps have evolved with constant feedback fromthe pilots that use them. Throughout this session, we've reviewed employeeapp characteristics and how they help your employees do their best work.

Found key areas for app opportunities such as mobile employees and paper processes.

Walk through the ways you can have your employees drive the design processto ensure your apps are impactful. And finally how to quickly build andrelease your app and then keep improving them over time. These learningswill help you on your journey designing and developing great custom appsfor your employees. We can't wait to see what you come up with and pleaseknow the work you do. These apps you create, they can fundamentally improvethe lives of your employees at work. Trust me I've seen it many times beforeand it's always inspiring.

I wish you luck. Thank you.
And have a great WWDC.

## Code Samples

