# Wwdc2020 10662

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

What's new in Wallet and Apple PayApple Pay makes it simple to pay for goods and services in your app and on your website. Discover how you can integrate API updates like context-specific button types, contact data formatting, and cross-platform support to make the service more effective for you and people using it. And, if you're building app clips, adopting Apple Pay can help you unlock new commerce experiences.ResourcesApple PayApple Pay on the WebPassKit (Apple Pay and Wallet)HD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC21Qualities of great iPad and iPhone apps on Macs with M1What's new in Wallet and Apple PayWWDC20Explore App Clips

Apple Pay makes it simple to pay for goods and services in your app and on your website. Discover how you can integrate API updates like context-specific button types, contact data formatting, and cross-platform support to make the service more effective for you and people using it. And, if you're building app clips, adopting Apple Pay can help you unlock new commerce experiences.

Apple Pay

Apple Pay on the Web

PassKit (Apple Pay and Wallet)

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Qualities of great iPad and iPhone apps on Macs with M1

What's new in Wallet and Apple Pay

Explore App Clips

Search this video…Hello and welcome to WWDC.Hello my name is Stacey Abrams and I'm an engineer on the Wallet and ApplePay team. I'm really excited to share what we've been working on this year.So let's get started. First, we'll cover incoming API enhancements thenwe will talk about how Apple Pay and App Clips work together. Finally, wewill cover platform enhancements that will improve the experience of Apple Pay.So let's get it into the API enhancements.When we first launched Apple Pay we started out with payment in its traditional form:Credit and debit cards. But we've come a long way since then and now wehave so much more than just credit cards. You can use Apple Pay to go onto public transit in the United States. Japan, and China just to name a few.You can add your student I.D. badge to Wallet and use your iPhone or AppleWatch to get into dining halls and academic buildings. Historically theclass used in conjunction with these features on device has been PKPaymentPass.But what these scenarios really have in common from a device standpointis that they all require the backing of the secure element. The paymentand PKPaymentPass was starting to feel a little too specific given ourcontinuously expanding feature set. Because of that today we are introducingPKSecureElementPass in order to accurately unify the uses of this class.PKSecureElementPass has all the same properties so encourage new andexisting developers to adopt this class moving forward. PKPaymentPasswill be deprecated in the future. One class that's not shedding its paymentcharacter is our very own PKPaymentButton. This is our main entry pointfor payment and that isn't changing. What is changing is that we have acomprehensive slate of new button types coming this year. Our users aredoing so much more than outright purchasing these days. People are usingApple Pay to rent bikes that or adding money to their transit cards.We wanted to enable anyone adding support for Apple Pay to have the purchasinggranularity they desire and the button that they add. So now you can rentwith Apple Pay, tip with Apple Pay, and more, all in the button you surfaceto your users. This is how you would currently declare a PKPaymentButtonwith a white outline on the web and natively on iOS. While type controlsthe content of the button, the style controls its appearance. We have lightand dark modes for PKPaymentButton. But wouldn't it be great if it automaticallyswitched based on if your app is in light or dark mode? Well now it can.We're introducing a new style that handles this PKButtonStyle style automatic.This button style will automatically switch based on the system theme.If you're an iOS or Mac OS developer you can use this automatic button style.If you have more specific requirements or want to respond to backgroundsdifferently then you can still use the regular light or dark stylesaccordingly. We hope this automatic style makes it easier to enable dark mode in your apps.We think you're going to love all these new button options and they willgo far in helping you to integrate Apple Pay into your App Clips, a featurethat we're really excited about.First a small review on what App Clips are. App Clips are a way to buildquick transactional experiences from the web while leveraging native iOStechnologies without needing to fully download your app. Users can completesmall focused tasks. And with App Clips. users gain access to a seamlesscheckout experience with Apple Pay natively. So you could tap and pay to park.You could tap and pay to rent a scooter or rent a bike. You could tap andpay for food at a restaurant or cafe. And so much more you could tap andpay to rent a car. You could tap and pay in store while having the itemdelivered home. Or you could tap and pay to fill your car with gas.The potential is really tremendous for easily and quickly unlocking serviceswith App Clips and Apple Pay. So let's cover the best practices when addingApple Pay to your App Clips. We recommend that you use Apple Pay when possiblebecause it's designed to be fast, easy, and secure. Making it your defaultpayment option will save your users time. We also suggest allowing guestcheck-out because it reduces friction by postponing account creation untilafter the purchase is complete. Use Sign in with Apple to make this processas easy as possible. And App Clips work best when they're simple and focused.Keeping this in mind when designing your app clip helps maximize conversion.And finally keeping your app clip lightweight lets users purchase fasterby loading assets such as maps and routes on demand rather than with theinitial download. You reduce overhead and make your App Clip experiencemore instantaneous. App Clips is going to bring even more people into theApple Pay ecosystem so it's fitting to talk about what we're doing to collectivelyenhance the Apple Pay experience across all of our platforms. So let'sbegin with Mac. Today Apple Pay on the Mac is primarily experienced throughSafari and we've seen developers adding support for Apple Pay on the Webeverywhere by leveraging WebKit which simplifies the payment process fore-commerce websites.Speaking of WebKit I wanted to discuss a couple features we introducedlast year- custom corner radius and redacted billing address support.You can now modify PKPayment buttons corner radius on the web. So whilethe button comes with rounded corners by default, you can increase therounding further to achieve a pill shape or decrease it to have a square shape.And when the user presses that button you can present our payment sheetin order to compute line items like taxes, merchants need simple local information.Historically, the shipping address would be used for this but shipping addressisn't applicable to all purchases as shown in this screen for a purchaseinvolving a digital certificate. Now merchants on the web can receive aredacted version of the billing address in order to compute variable line items.This feature is ideal for purchases involving digital goods and services.It results in a lower risk of chargebacks for merchants and higher conversionrates because users get a complete price picture before authenticatingto approve the transaction. But what about experiences outside of Safarion Mac? We haven't provided a truly native option for our Mac users.However, today that changes with Apple Pay coming to Catalyst and native Mac apps.With Catalyst you can have your amazing iPod apps come to the Mac withthe full fidelity of the Apple Pay experience.We are going further than Catalyst too and adding native support. So ifyou had a photo book app or any other app that takes payments on Mac, itcan now accept Apple Pay.This will bring on great payment experiences to more Mac apps across the board.This also means that PKPaymentButton is coming to Mac including thenew types and new automatic style that I just announced. So how do youcomplete a payment on Mac? Well it's very similar to how you do it on the web.To quickly recap, you need to establish a merchant session and you do soby WebKit telling you which URL to hit. Then you validate thatURL against a published list of Apple host names and send a postrequest to it. Apple Pay server returns the session for the client to consume.If you'd like to get more information about this you can find it in ourApple Pay on the web talk from 2016. A native app might not need to useWebKit though, so we made things really easy here. You hit this one staticURL and you don't have to worry about where it's coming from anymore.In fact, this works for web payments too so you should stop using the oldway and transition to this new way. In a future release, the old way willbe removed completely. Now a couple more notes about implementing ApplePay on Mac. First, when using the PKPaymentAuthorizationController,  itneeds to know the window upon which to present the payment sheet.Your delegate must implement the presentation window method and return the UIwindow requesting the payment. Typically, you'll return youryourViewController.view.window. Of note, if you're using thePKPaymentAuthorizationViewController, the hosting window is determined by the presentation ofthat view controller. And as I just mentioned Catalyst uses the same securitymodel as a web page implementing support for Apple Pay. Your delegate shouldimplement the DID request merchant session update method to request a merchantsession from your server which securely obtains it from Apple. The resultof that request is then passed back through the provided handler. On Catalyst,this takes the place of supplying your merchant IDs within your entitlements.Now many developers have their native apps load web pages as a method ofaccepting Apple Pay. They do this by implementing support for WebKit. Withthe introduction of tiered WebKit, I wanted to touch on its implications forApple Pay. To further protect user privacy, WKWebViews will now workmore like the Safari View Controller. Apps displaying WKWebViews willbe restricted in the APIs they can invoke outside of a set of app-defined domains.This means limitations to JavaScript injections. Now nothing really changesfor Apple Pay, from an implementation standpoint. It was previously thecase that you could not perform Apple Pay transactions if script was injectedinto a WKWebView instance on iOS. What this does mean for Apple Payis that there will now be more WKWebViews blocked from injecting script.This means more loaded pages on iOS will be allowed to perform ApplePay transactions now. With Apple Pay making its debut on Catalyst and nativeMac apps, we wanted to discuss what we are doing to make the contact informationand checkout experience more seamless on iOS, macOS, and the Web.People have been using Apple Pay for a while, in fact for six years, which is incredible.This has meant that over time users have accumulated a lot of Apple Paycontact information on their devices. And everyone knows what this feels like.Some users would see this and that was for a few reasons. To this point,we haven't formatted our contact data. You could insert any character youwant including emojis. While fun, these pose problems for address validationsystems that merchants employ. And even if the merchant cleaned up theaddress separately, future transactions with Apple Pay wouldn't reap thebenefits of that corrected information.So we set a goal for ourselves. Establish consistency and make it easieron users and merchants. While the ultimate responsibility of address validationfor billing and shipping lies with the merchant, we want to ensure thatthe data that the merchant gets is more consistent.This way when contact data comes from Apple Pay, it will be standardizedso you'll see less variation and more predictability in the experience.So how are we achieving this? We will now provide basic formatting forcontact data through the payment sheet beginning with the latest iOSand macOS. US merchants can now begin to expect better formatted data.Street and city fields will only contain alphanumeric characters, punctuation,and whitespace. The state field will be a two letter state code and inthe US for example, the zip code will be a five or nine digit numeric code.If applicable. The ISO country code will be an uppercase two letter country code.We're also improving the user experience by raising formatting errors inthe UI earlier in the payment flow so that the user can address them beforethey authenticate with Touch ID or Face ID. For example in this screen,the incomplete zip code is highlighted. And here we surface that the phonenumber is not valid so the user knows to fix that specifically. Use ourError APIs to help your users understand what information needs correcting.By doing so they combined with the power of these new contact formattingrules to elevate the accuracy of stored data on device. We will initiallybe supporting addresses from Australia, Canada, United Kingdom, and the UnitedStates. While rolling out support to other countries soon. Address formattingdifferences across countries such as postal code will be accounted foron a per-region basis. These enhancements to our contact data formattingwill make it simpler for users to use Apple Pay at checkout. But beforeyou can check out, you need to have a card in Apple Pay to begin with.We wanted to make it easier for users to know that they can use Apple Pay.There are few ways new and existing users can add cards today. You canscan a card which uses our stellar camera recognition technology but youdo need to be in possession of your physical card to do this. You can addthe card from within an issue or app which works well but you need to intentionallyalready be there and have the goal of adding that card. We wanted to makeit easier for our users to know that they can add a card to Apple Pay byimproving discoverability from within Wallet. Today we are introducingsupport for issuer extensions to facilitate that goal. For an issuer,this gives them the ability to have that in-app experience of adding a card,but inside of Wallet. The issuer app needs to be installed and the userneeds to have sign into the app at least once. So Wallet knows there'scards to surface. While it can prompt for re-authentication when addingif the app requires it. This feature is extension based. Apps will needa non-UI extension. It will report the status of the extension, the passesit has available, and then perform the card data lookup. Just like whenadding cards to Apple Pay from within an app it must subclass PKIssuerProvisioningExtensionHandlerand your extension will need an entitlement.Now if the non-UI extension reports in its status that authentication isrequired then a UI extension is also needed to handle that reauthentication.Your extension view controller should conform to PKIssuerProvisioningExtensionAuthorizationProvidingthis UI extension also requires a separate entitlement.If you are interested in supporting issuer extensions, please reach outto us. We'll help you determine if issuer extensions make sense for yourapp and get your app entitled. We've covered a lot of changes today andI wanted to quickly review them. I introduced a new style and new buttontypes for PKPaymentButton. We talked about App Clips and how you canleverage Apple Pay even when your app isn't downloaded. We are now providingfull Mac support- native and Catalyst. Mac support and App Clips will benefitgreatly from our new standardized contact information formatting by region.The experience of using Apple Pay will be more consistent as more usersare onboarded onto the platform. And finally, we introduced extensions forcard issuers. We're really excited for you to leverage these changes inyour apps. We encourage you to add support for App Clips and Apple Payto build even better commerce experiences. Use our new buttons while you'reat it. Use the new static URL for your Apple Pay sessions natively andon the web. Take a look at our code sample for supporting Apple Pay onMac found in our resources.And finally adopt our Error APIs for an all around better checkout experience.Thanks for attending today and I hope
you've had a great WWDC.

Hello and welcome to WWDC.

Hello my name is Stacey Abrams and I'm an engineer on the Wallet and ApplePay team. I'm really excited to share what we've been working on this year.So let's get started. First, we'll cover incoming API enhancements thenwe will talk about how Apple Pay and App Clips work together. Finally, wewill cover platform enhancements that will improve the experience of Apple Pay.

So let's get it into the API enhancements.

When we first launched Apple Pay we started out with payment in its traditional form:Credit and debit cards. But we've come a long way since then and now wehave so much more than just credit cards. You can use Apple Pay to go onto public transit in the United States. Japan, and China just to name a few.

You can add your student I.D. badge to Wallet and use your iPhone or AppleWatch to get into dining halls and academic buildings. Historically theclass used in conjunction with these features on device has been PKPaymentPass.But what these scenarios really have in common from a device standpointis that they all require the backing of the secure element. The paymentand PKPaymentPass was starting to feel a little too specific given ourcontinuously expanding feature set. Because of that today we are introducingPKSecureElementPass in order to accurately unify the uses of this class.

PKSecureElementPass has all the same properties so encourage new andexisting developers to adopt this class moving forward. PKPaymentPasswill be deprecated in the future. One class that's not shedding its paymentcharacter is our very own PKPaymentButton. This is our main entry pointfor payment and that isn't changing. What is changing is that we have acomprehensive slate of new button types coming this year. Our users aredoing so much more than outright purchasing these days. People are usingApple Pay to rent bikes that or adding money to their transit cards.We wanted to enable anyone adding support for Apple Pay to have the purchasinggranularity they desire and the button that they add. So now you can rentwith Apple Pay, tip with Apple Pay, and more, all in the button you surfaceto your users. This is how you would currently declare a PKPaymentButtonwith a white outline on the web and natively on iOS. While type controlsthe content of the button, the style controls its appearance. We have lightand dark modes for PKPaymentButton. But wouldn't it be great if it automaticallyswitched based on if your app is in light or dark mode? Well now it can.We're introducing a new style that handles this PKButtonStyle style automatic.This button style will automatically switch based on the system theme.If you're an iOS or Mac OS developer you can use this automatic button style.If you have more specific requirements or want to respond to backgroundsdifferently then you can still use the regular light or dark stylesaccordingly. We hope this automatic style makes it easier to enable dark mode in your apps.We think you're going to love all these new button options and they willgo far in helping you to integrate Apple Pay into your App Clips, a featurethat we're really excited about.

First a small review on what App Clips are. App Clips are a way to buildquick transactional experiences from the web while leveraging native iOStechnologies without needing to fully download your app. Users can completesmall focused tasks. And with App Clips. users gain access to a seamlesscheckout experience with Apple Pay natively. So you could tap and pay to park.

You could tap and pay to rent a scooter or rent a bike. You could tap andpay for food at a restaurant or cafe. And so much more you could tap andpay to rent a car. You could tap and pay in store while having the itemdelivered home. Or you could tap and pay to fill your car with gas.The potential is really tremendous for easily and quickly unlocking serviceswith App Clips and Apple Pay. So let's cover the best practices when addingApple Pay to your App Clips. We recommend that you use Apple Pay when possiblebecause it's designed to be fast, easy, and secure. Making it your defaultpayment option will save your users time. We also suggest allowing guestcheck-out because it reduces friction by postponing account creation untilafter the purchase is complete. Use Sign in with Apple to make this processas easy as possible. And App Clips work best when they're simple and focused.Keeping this in mind when designing your app clip helps maximize conversion.

And finally keeping your app clip lightweight lets users purchase fasterby loading assets such as maps and routes on demand rather than with theinitial download. You reduce overhead and make your App Clip experiencemore instantaneous. App Clips is going to bring even more people into theApple Pay ecosystem so it's fitting to talk about what we're doing to collectivelyenhance the Apple Pay experience across all of our platforms. So let'sbegin with Mac. Today Apple Pay on the Mac is primarily experienced throughSafari and we've seen developers adding support for Apple Pay on the Webeverywhere by leveraging WebKit which simplifies the payment process fore-commerce websites.Speaking of WebKit I wanted to discuss a couple features we introducedlast year- custom corner radius and redacted billing address support.

You can now modify PKPayment buttons corner radius on the web. So whilethe button comes with rounded corners by default, you can increase therounding further to achieve a pill shape or decrease it to have a square shape.

And when the user presses that button you can present our payment sheetin order to compute line items like taxes, merchants need simple local information.Historically, the shipping address would be used for this but shipping addressisn't applicable to all purchases as shown in this screen for a purchaseinvolving a digital certificate. Now merchants on the web can receive aredacted version of the billing address in order to compute variable line items.

This feature is ideal for purchases involving digital goods and services.It results in a lower risk of chargebacks for merchants and higher conversionrates because users get a complete price picture before authenticatingto approve the transaction. But what about experiences outside of Safarion Mac? We haven't provided a truly native option for our Mac users.However, today that changes with Apple Pay coming to Catalyst and native Mac apps.With Catalyst you can have your amazing iPod apps come to the Mac withthe full fidelity of the Apple Pay experience.We are going further than Catalyst too and adding native support. So ifyou had a photo book app or any other app that takes payments on Mac, itcan now accept Apple Pay.

This will bring on great payment experiences to more Mac apps across the board.This also means that PKPaymentButton is coming to Mac including thenew types and new automatic style that I just announced. So how do youcomplete a payment on Mac? Well it's very similar to how you do it on the web.To quickly recap, you need to establish a merchant session and you do soby WebKit telling you which URL to hit. Then you validate thatURL against a published list of Apple host names and send a postrequest to it. Apple Pay server returns the session for the client to consume.

If you'd like to get more information about this you can find it in ourApple Pay on the web talk from 2016. A native app might not need to useWebKit though, so we made things really easy here. You hit this one staticURL and you don't have to worry about where it's coming from anymore.

In fact, this works for web payments too so you should stop using the oldway and transition to this new way. In a future release, the old way willbe removed completely. Now a couple more notes about implementing ApplePay on Mac. First, when using the PKPaymentAuthorizationController,  itneeds to know the window upon which to present the payment sheet.Your delegate must implement the presentation window method and return the UIwindow requesting the payment. Typically, you'll return youryourViewController.view.window. Of note, if you're using thePKPaymentAuthorizationViewController, the hosting window is determined by the presentation ofthat view controller. And as I just mentioned Catalyst uses the same securitymodel as a web page implementing support for Apple Pay. Your delegate shouldimplement the DID request merchant session update method to request a merchantsession from your server which securely obtains it from Apple. The resultof that request is then passed back through the provided handler. On Catalyst,this takes the place of supplying your merchant IDs within your entitlements.Now many developers have their native apps load web pages as a method ofaccepting Apple Pay. They do this by implementing support for WebKit. Withthe introduction of tiered WebKit, I wanted to touch on its implications forApple Pay. To further protect user privacy, WKWebViews will now workmore like the Safari View Controller. Apps displaying WKWebViews willbe restricted in the APIs they can invoke outside of a set of app-defined domains.This means limitations to JavaScript injections. Now nothing really changesfor Apple Pay, from an implementation standpoint. It was previously thecase that you could not perform Apple Pay transactions if script was injectedinto a WKWebView instance on iOS. What this does mean for Apple Payis that there will now be more WKWebViews blocked from injecting script.This means more loaded pages on iOS will be allowed to perform ApplePay transactions now. With Apple Pay making its debut on Catalyst and nativeMac apps, we wanted to discuss what we are doing to make the contact informationand checkout experience more seamless on iOS, macOS, and the Web.People have been using Apple Pay for a while, in fact for six years, which is incredible.This has meant that over time users have accumulated a lot of Apple Paycontact information on their devices. And everyone knows what this feels like.Some users would see this and that was for a few reasons. To this point,we haven't formatted our contact data. You could insert any character youwant including emojis. While fun, these pose problems for address validationsystems that merchants employ. And even if the merchant cleaned up theaddress separately, future transactions with Apple Pay wouldn't reap thebenefits of that corrected information.So we set a goal for ourselves. Establish consistency and make it easieron users and merchants. While the ultimate responsibility of address validationfor billing and shipping lies with the merchant, we want to ensure thatthe data that the merchant gets is more consistent.

This way when contact data comes from Apple Pay, it will be standardizedso you'll see less variation and more predictability in the experience.So how are we achieving this? We will now provide basic formatting forcontact data through the payment sheet beginning with the latest iOSand macOS. US merchants can now begin to expect better formatted data.

Street and city fields will only contain alphanumeric characters, punctuation,and whitespace. The state field will be a two letter state code and inthe US for example, the zip code will be a five or nine digit numeric code.If applicable. The ISO country code will be an uppercase two letter country code.

We're also improving the user experience by raising formatting errors inthe UI earlier in the payment flow so that the user can address them beforethey authenticate with Touch ID or Face ID. For example in this screen,the incomplete zip code is highlighted. And here we surface that the phonenumber is not valid so the user knows to fix that specifically. Use ourError APIs to help your users understand what information needs correcting.By doing so they combined with the power of these new contact formattingrules to elevate the accuracy of stored data on device. We will initiallybe supporting addresses from Australia, Canada, United Kingdom, and the UnitedStates. While rolling out support to other countries soon. Address formattingdifferences across countries such as postal code will be accounted foron a per-region basis. These enhancements to our contact data formattingwill make it simpler for users to use Apple Pay at checkout. But beforeyou can check out, you need to have a card in Apple Pay to begin with.We wanted to make it easier for users to know that they can use Apple Pay.There are few ways new and existing users can add cards today. You canscan a card which uses our stellar camera recognition technology but youdo need to be in possession of your physical card to do this. You can addthe card from within an issue or app which works well but you need to intentionallyalready be there and have the goal of adding that card. We wanted to makeit easier for our users to know that they can add a card to Apple Pay byimproving discoverability from within Wallet. Today we are introducingsupport for issuer extensions to facilitate that goal. For an issuer,this gives them the ability to have that in-app experience of adding a card,but inside of Wallet. The issuer app needs to be installed and the userneeds to have sign into the app at least once. So Wallet knows there'scards to surface. While it can prompt for re-authentication when addingif the app requires it. This feature is extension based. Apps will needa non-UI extension. It will report the status of the extension, the passesit has available, and then perform the card data lookup. Just like whenadding cards to Apple Pay from within an app it must subclass PKIssuerProvisioningExtensionHandlerand your extension will need an entitlement.

Now if the non-UI extension reports in its status that authentication isrequired then a UI extension is also needed to handle that reauthentication.

Your extension view controller should conform to PKIssuerProvisioningExtensionAuthorizationProvidingthis UI extension also requires a separate entitlement.If you are interested in supporting issuer extensions, please reach outto us. We'll help you determine if issuer extensions make sense for yourapp and get your app entitled. We've covered a lot of changes today andI wanted to quickly review them. I introduced a new style and new buttontypes for PKPaymentButton. We talked about App Clips and how you canleverage Apple Pay even when your app isn't downloaded. We are now providingfull Mac support- native and Catalyst. Mac support and App Clips will benefitgreatly from our new standardized contact information formatting by region.The experience of using Apple Pay will be more consistent as more usersare onboarded onto the platform. And finally, we introduced extensions forcard issuers. We're really excited for you to leverage these changes inyour apps. We encourage you to add support for App Clips and Apple Payto build even better commerce experiences. Use our new buttons while you'reat it. Use the new static URL for your Apple Pay sessions natively andon the web. Take a look at our code sample for supporting Apple Pay onMac found in our resources.And finally adopt our Error APIs for an all around better checkout experience.

Thanks for attending today and I hope
you've had a great WWDC.

7:44 -Implementing Apple Pay on the Mac

## Code Samples

```swift
// PKPaymentAuthorizationControllerDelegate 



func
 
presentationWindow
(
for
 
controller
: 
PKPaymentAuthorizationController
)
 -> 
UIWindow
? {
    
let
 purchaseWindow 
=
 yourViewController.view.window
    
return
 (purchaseWindow) 
// The window presenting the payment sheet.

}



func
 
paymentAuthorizationController
(
_
 
controller
: 
PKPaymentAuthorizationController
, 
didRequestMerchantSessionUpdate
 
handler
: 
@escaping
 (
PKPaymentRequestMerchantSessionUpdate
) -> 
Void
)
 {
    
// Get merchant session to enable the user to authorize a transaction.

    
var
 dict 
=
 
try?
 
JSONSerialization
.jsonObject(with: data, options: .allowFragments) 
as?
 [
String
: 
Any
] {
        
let
 session 
=
 
PKPaymentMerchantSession
(dictionary: dict)
        
let
 update 
=
 
PKPaymentRequestMerchantSessionUpdate
(status: .success, merchantSession: session)
        handler(update)
    }
}
```

