# Wwdc2020 10652

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Meet the new Photos pickerLet people select photos and videos to use in your app without requiring full Photo Library access. Discover how the PHPicker API for iOS and Mac Catalyst ensures privacy while providing your app the features you need.

PHPicker is the modern replacement for UIImagePickerController. In addition to its privacy-focused approach, the API also provides additional features for your app like search, multi-image selection, and the ability to zoom in or out on on the photo grid. We'll show you how PHPicker can help most apps avoid asking for direct library access and how you can implement it to improve the overall experience for people interacting with your app.ResourcesPhotoKitSelecting Photos and Videos in iOSHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC23Embed the Photos Picker in your appWWDC22What's new in the Photos pickerWWDC21Capture and process ProRAW imagesImprove access to Photos in your appWWDC20Build trust through better privacyBuild with iOS pickers, menus and actionsHandle the Limited Photos Library in your app

Let people select photos and videos to use in your app without requiring full Photo Library access. Discover how the PHPicker API for iOS and Mac Catalyst ensures privacy while providing your app the features you need.

PHPicker is the modern replacement for UIImagePickerController. In addition to its privacy-focused approach, the API also provides additional features for your app like search, multi-image selection, and the ability to zoom in or out on on the photo grid. We'll show you how PHPicker can help most apps avoid asking for direct library access and how you can implement it to improve the overall experience for people interacting with your app.

PhotoKit

Selecting Photos and Videos in iOS

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Embed the Photos Picker in your app

What's new in the Photos picker

Capture and process ProRAW images

Improve access to Photos in your app

Build trust through better privacy

Build with iOS pickers, menus and actions

Handle the Limited Photos Library in your app

Search this video…Hello and welcome to WWDC.Hello my name is to be Tobias Conradi and I'm an engineer on the Photos teamtogether with my colleague Justin. I will introduce you to the new photos picker.First of all let's answer this question. What is PHPicker.PHPicker is the system provided Picker which allows you to get access to photosand videos from the users photo library. It is now built-in support for searchjust like the photos app. It supports fluid zooming in the grid. And a veryoften requested feature, multiselect for third party apps, where youcan even review your selection in one up. In short. PHPicker is thebest way for an app to access photo and video data from photos. It comesin an all new design you just saw, has a new easy to use API, supportsmulti-selection and apps can specify the selectable types. Another very importantfeature is the privacy aspect of it. It has privacy built in by default.It doesn't need direct access to the photos library to show the picker andthe picker won't prompt for access on behalf of the app. It provides theuser selected photos and videos only which is a clear users intent of sharingthe assets with your app. You might wonder how do we achieve that.Well PHPicker runs out of process of the app even though it looks likePHPicker runs inside the app. It is really running in a separate processfrom the host app rendered on top of it. But the app can't access the pickerdirectly and not even take screenshots of the picker content. Only whatthe user actually selects is passed back to the host app. Now let's havea look at the different components of this API. First there is PHPickerconjuration which is used to specify the multi-select limit or with anoptional PHPicker filter, we'd use the selectable types. The configurationis passed to PHPicker controller, doing its initialization. Set a delegateimplement it in your app to get a response back. Once a user confirms theselection the picker creates an area of PHPicker result objects which isthen passed back to the delegate. Let's have a look how it works in code.As I already mentioned you can use a configuration to specify the selectionlimit and filter down the visible item types. First we initialize the configuration.You can specify a selection limit for the picker. The default limit isone and to allow unlimited selection, set the selection limit to zero.You can then specify a filter to restrict the types of selected items.For example if you only want to show images including live photos use theimages filter. You can even combine photos. In this example the pickerwill only show videos and live photos but no images. The PHPickerViewControlleris initialized with the configuration. First let's create a configurationand then pass the configuration to the picker ViewController during initialization.Assign a delegate to the picker and present the picker. Please note thatyour app is responsible for presentation and dismissal of the picker.The picker doesn't manage presentation itself. Once the user confirms thisselection the delegate method will be called. So first let's dismiss the picker.Then you can ask result object for an NSItemProvider. The itemProvider presentsmultiple different representations of the selected item. First askthe provider if it can load the type you want to load and then actually load it.Then your app can do something with the image. Remember that the item providerAPI is async and you should handle any errors occurring here. Let me nowhand over to my colleague Justin to show it to you in Xcode. Thanks Tobias.Hello everyone.My name is Justin. I'm an engineer on the Photos team. I'm here to showyou how you can integrate PHPicker into your iOS application. We will builda simple photo preview app that can display users likely photos on screen.Before we start let's spin it around to see what we have currently. We have aUIImageView displaying a placeholder image. There's also a plus button.but tapping it doesn't do anything right now. So what does it take to complete this app?We're going to do it in two steps. First we'll support previewing a singleimage. We'll present the picker when plus is tapped and display the selectedimage in the image view. Then we will add multi image support in addition tohighlighting single selection. If more than one image is selected a user can displaythe next selected image by simply tapping on the screen. OK, now let's understandwhat features we want to add and start building. The first thing I need to dois to present the picker. I already set up the UI so presentPicker methodwill be called when plus is tapped. We just need to implement this method.To actually present the picker, we'll create the picker of configuration object first.Since we're only interested in images we want to specify the images filter.We don't need to set a selection limit because the default selection limit is one.We will add multi-selection support later. Then we can utilize PHPickers ViewControllerusing the configuration object I just created. We want thepresenting ViewController to receive user selections so we need to set delegate to self.There seen just compiler error because our ViewController doesn't conformto the delegate protocol yet. Let's add this conformance to fix the error.We only need to implement a single method Picker didFinishPicking. It willgive us an array of PHPicker objects. If a user cancels the pickerthat array will be empty. We should always dismiss the picker first.Then we can check if we received any results. And if the itemProvider canload images we'll retrieve the image and display on screen.You should also handle the error when the image can't be retrieved. All right.That's all we need to implement single selection. Let's spin around to see whatwe have so far. Now if I tap the plus button the picker will be presentedand if I select an image, it will be displayed on screen. It worked. It's thateasy to use PHPicker API.Great let's complete the app by adding multiple selection support. The firstthing I need to do is to set selection limit to zero, to enable unlimitedselection. The greatest thing about the new CIImage API is that we don't needto load all images upfront. We just need to keep a reference to all return itemproviders and load images when necessary. So let's do that.Now we have a way to store all picker returned item providers. We also createiterator so can note which selected image is currently displayed. We cancreate a method to display the next image. You may notice that this isvery similar to our previous single selection implementation. The onlydifference is we use the iterator to get the current item provider.Like I mentioned earlier whenever the screen is tapped we want to display thenext image. So we just need to override touchHasEnded and call displaynext image. And lastly we can update our delegate method.So we can delete single selection first.We just need to save all item providers. Create an iterator and cut displaynext image to display the first image. That's all we need to implementMulti-image preview. Let's run the app to see what we've built.I can tap the plus button.You may notice that the picker now has a slightly different UI.That's because the picker knows we're in multi-selection mode. We'll also show thestaging area and also the Add button on the top right corner.I can select a couple images and tap Add.The first image is quickly displayed on screen. Is it is as fast as singleselection mode. Because we don't need to load other images at all.And if I tap the screen the next image will be displayed. Tap it again and againand again until I reach the end.That's it for a demo. Now back to Slides. I've seen the demo. You don'tneed to prep for photos library access to use PHPicker. Actually for mostapps that only want photo and video data you don't need to use PhotoKit at all.But at the same time, we know that some PhotoKit based apps want to get usersPHAssets from the picture. So let's talk about how you can dothat before without the API. Let's consider what types of apps canbenefit from using PhotoKit. For example if your app supports Non-destructiveimage editing or has Photos Library organization features you need to usePhotoKit. But please make sure you only request photos library accesswhen necessary and handle the case where photos library access is deniedby the user. Let's look at some code now. Using PHPicker with PhotoKitis very simple. You just need to initialized PHPicker configuration witha PHPhotoLibrary object. Then you can get asset identifierswith a delegate callback and can fetch PHAssets using assetIdentifiers throughstandard PhotoKit API. In iOS 14 we also introduce a new feature calledLimited Photos Library. If your app doesn't use PhotoKit you don't needto worry about that. For apps asking for photos library access we will showa third select photos option in the user prompt in addition to the existingallow access and no access options. The new option will only allow your appto access a portion of PHAssets in a users photo library. We believeit can enable users to better control their privacy. If a user places your appand your Limited Photos Library there's a couple things you need to keepin mind. First the picker will still show the entire photos library and allphotos and videos can be selected by the user. Second no matter what userselects in the picker, PHAssets you can access will not change. If youwant to request access to additional PHAssets there is a separate APIfor you to do that. For more information please refer to Handle the LimitedPhotos Library in Your App session. Now back to Tobias to wrap up this session.Thank you Justin. Let's talk about some best practices and summarize whatyou've just learned. First let's start with the deprecations reminder.AssetsLibrary has been deprecated years ago and is still deprecated. If yourapp needs access to the first library please switch over to PhotoKit.AssetsLibrary will eventually go away. The other deprecation announcement todayis about the photos library portion of UIImagePickerController.It is being deprecated and we encourage you to adopt PHPickerViewController instead.If your app and its access to images or videos would really encourage youto adopt the new PHPicker instead of writing your own custom picker UI.It supports multi select search and has a consistent UI with the mainPhotos app. So your users already know how to get to the images and videos.Also please don't prompt for photo library access before showing the pickerand don't require the user to grant you access before showing the picker.There's no need to do any of this. And it doesn't help with the users trustinto your app. If your app leverages PhotoKit to access the photos libraryplease reconsider if it really needs to have access to the library or ifyou can use PHPicker instead. We really hope you like the new picker and API.We're looking forward to you adopting
it in your apps. Thank you.

Hello and welcome to WWDC.

Hello my name is to be Tobias Conradi and I'm an engineer on the Photos teamtogether with my colleague Justin. I will introduce you to the new photos picker.First of all let's answer this question. What is PHPicker.PHPicker is the system provided Picker which allows you to get access to photosand videos from the users photo library. It is now built-in support for searchjust like the photos app. It supports fluid zooming in the grid. And a veryoften requested feature, multiselect for third party apps, where youcan even review your selection in one up. In short. PHPicker is thebest way for an app to access photo and video data from photos. It comesin an all new design you just saw, has a new easy to use API, supportsmulti-selection and apps can specify the selectable types. Another very importantfeature is the privacy aspect of it. It has privacy built in by default.It doesn't need direct access to the photos library to show the picker andthe picker won't prompt for access on behalf of the app. It provides theuser selected photos and videos only which is a clear users intent of sharingthe assets with your app. You might wonder how do we achieve that.Well PHPicker runs out of process of the app even though it looks likePHPicker runs inside the app. It is really running in a separate processfrom the host app rendered on top of it. But the app can't access the pickerdirectly and not even take screenshots of the picker content. Only whatthe user actually selects is passed back to the host app. Now let's havea look at the different components of this API. First there is PHPickerconjuration which is used to specify the multi-select limit or with anoptional PHPicker filter, we'd use the selectable types. The configurationis passed to PHPicker controller, doing its initialization. Set a delegateimplement it in your app to get a response back. Once a user confirms theselection the picker creates an area of PHPicker result objects which isthen passed back to the delegate. Let's have a look how it works in code.As I already mentioned you can use a configuration to specify the selectionlimit and filter down the visible item types. First we initialize the configuration.

You can specify a selection limit for the picker. The default limit isone and to allow unlimited selection, set the selection limit to zero.You can then specify a filter to restrict the types of selected items.For example if you only want to show images including live photos use theimages filter. You can even combine photos. In this example the pickerwill only show videos and live photos but no images. The PHPickerViewControlleris initialized with the configuration. First let's create a configurationand then pass the configuration to the picker ViewController during initialization.Assign a delegate to the picker and present the picker. Please note thatyour app is responsible for presentation and dismissal of the picker.The picker doesn't manage presentation itself. Once the user confirms thisselection the delegate method will be called. So first let's dismiss the picker.Then you can ask result object for an NSItemProvider. The itemProvider presentsmultiple different representations of the selected item. First askthe provider if it can load the type you want to load and then actually load it.Then your app can do something with the image. Remember that the item providerAPI is async and you should handle any errors occurring here. Let me nowhand over to my colleague Justin to show it to you in Xcode. Thanks Tobias.Hello everyone.My name is Justin. I'm an engineer on the Photos team. I'm here to showyou how you can integrate PHPicker into your iOS application. We will builda simple photo preview app that can display users likely photos on screen.Before we start let's spin it around to see what we have currently. We have aUIImageView displaying a placeholder image. There's also a plus button.but tapping it doesn't do anything right now. So what does it take to complete this app?We're going to do it in two steps. First we'll support previewing a singleimage. We'll present the picker when plus is tapped and display the selectedimage in the image view. Then we will add multi image support in addition tohighlighting single selection. If more than one image is selected a user can displaythe next selected image by simply tapping on the screen. OK, now let's understandwhat features we want to add and start building. The first thing I need to dois to present the picker. I already set up the UI so presentPicker methodwill be called when plus is tapped. We just need to implement this method.To actually present the picker, we'll create the picker of configuration object first.

Since we're only interested in images we want to specify the images filter.

We don't need to set a selection limit because the default selection limit is one.We will add multi-selection support later. Then we can utilize PHPickers ViewControllerusing the configuration object I just created. We want thepresenting ViewController to receive user selections so we need to set delegate to self.

There seen just compiler error because our ViewController doesn't conformto the delegate protocol yet. Let's add this conformance to fix the error.We only need to implement a single method Picker didFinishPicking. It willgive us an array of PHPicker objects. If a user cancels the pickerthat array will be empty. We should always dismiss the picker first.

Then we can check if we received any results. And if the itemProvider canload images we'll retrieve the image and display on screen.You should also handle the error when the image can't be retrieved. All right.That's all we need to implement single selection. Let's spin around to see whatwe have so far. Now if I tap the plus button the picker will be presentedand if I select an image, it will be displayed on screen. It worked. It's thateasy to use PHPicker API.

Great let's complete the app by adding multiple selection support. The firstthing I need to do is to set selection limit to zero, to enable unlimitedselection. The greatest thing about the new CIImage API is that we don't needto load all images upfront. We just need to keep a reference to all return itemproviders and load images when necessary. So let's do that.

Now we have a way to store all picker returned item providers. We also createiterator so can note which selected image is currently displayed. We cancreate a method to display the next image. You may notice that this isvery similar to our previous single selection implementation. The onlydifference is we use the iterator to get the current item provider.Like I mentioned earlier whenever the screen is tapped we want to display thenext image. So we just need to override touchHasEnded and call displaynext image. And lastly we can update our delegate method.

So we can delete single selection first.

We just need to save all item providers. Create an iterator and cut displaynext image to display the first image. That's all we need to implementMulti-image preview. Let's run the app to see what we've built.

I can tap the plus button.

You may notice that the picker now has a slightly different UI.That's because the picker knows we're in multi-selection mode. We'll also show thestaging area and also the Add button on the top right corner.

I can select a couple images and tap Add.

The first image is quickly displayed on screen. Is it is as fast as singleselection mode. Because we don't need to load other images at all.

And if I tap the screen the next image will be displayed. Tap it again and againand again until I reach the end.

That's it for a demo. Now back to Slides. I've seen the demo. You don'tneed to prep for photos library access to use PHPicker. Actually for mostapps that only want photo and video data you don't need to use PhotoKit at all.

But at the same time, we know that some PhotoKit based apps want to get usersPHAssets from the picture. So let's talk about how you can dothat before without the API. Let's consider what types of apps canbenefit from using PhotoKit. For example if your app supports Non-destructiveimage editing or has Photos Library organization features you need to usePhotoKit. But please make sure you only request photos library accesswhen necessary and handle the case where photos library access is deniedby the user. Let's look at some code now. Using PHPicker with PhotoKitis very simple. You just need to initialized PHPicker configuration witha PHPhotoLibrary object. Then you can get asset identifierswith a delegate callback and can fetch PHAssets using assetIdentifiers throughstandard PhotoKit API. In iOS 14 we also introduce a new feature calledLimited Photos Library. If your app doesn't use PhotoKit you don't needto worry about that. For apps asking for photos library access we will showa third select photos option in the user prompt in addition to the existingallow access and no access options. The new option will only allow your appto access a portion of PHAssets in a users photo library. We believeit can enable users to better control their privacy. If a user places your appand your Limited Photos Library there's a couple things you need to keepin mind. First the picker will still show the entire photos library and allphotos and videos can be selected by the user. Second no matter what userselects in the picker, PHAssets you can access will not change. If youwant to request access to additional PHAssets there is a separate APIfor you to do that. For more information please refer to Handle the LimitedPhotos Library in Your App session. Now back to Tobias to wrap up this session.Thank you Justin. Let's talk about some best practices and summarize whatyou've just learned. First let's start with the deprecations reminder.AssetsLibrary has been deprecated years ago and is still deprecated. If yourapp needs access to the first library please switch over to PhotoKit.AssetsLibrary will eventually go away. The other deprecation announcement todayis about the photos library portion of UIImagePickerController.It is being deprecated and we encourage you to adopt PHPickerViewController instead.If your app and its access to images or videos would really encourage youto adopt the new PHPicker instead of writing your own custom picker UI.It supports multi select search and has a consistent UI with the mainPhotos app. So your users already know how to get to the images and videos.Also please don't prompt for photo library access before showing the pickerand don't require the user to grant you access before showing the picker.There's no need to do any of this. And it doesn't help with the users trustinto your app. If your app leverages PhotoKit to access the photos libraryplease reconsider if it really needs to have access to the library or ifyou can use PHPicker instead. We really hope you like the new picker and API.We're looking forward to you adopting
it in your apps. Thank you.

2:27 -PHPickerConfiguration

3:07 -PHPickerViewController

5:19 -Demo - Single Selection

7:34 -Demo - Multiple Selection

11:13 -Using PHPicker with PhotoKit

## Code Samples

```swift
import
 PhotosUI


var
 configuration 
=
 
PHPickerConfiguration
()


// “unlimited” selection by specifying 0, default is 1

configuration.selectionLimit 
=
 
0



// Only show images (including Live Photos)

configuration.filter 
=
 .images

// Uncomment next line for other example: Only show videos or Live Photos (for their video complement), but no images


// configuration.filter = .any(of: [.videos, .livePhotos])
```

```swift
import
 UIKit

import
 PhotosUI


class
 
SingleSelectionPickerViewController
: 
UIViewController
, 
PHPickerViewControllerDelegate
 
{
    
@IBAction
 
func
 
presentPicker
(
_
 
sender
: 
Any
)
 {
        
var
 configuration 
=
 
PHPickerConfiguration
()
        
// Only wants images

        configuration.filter 
=
 .images
        
        
let
 picker 
=
 
PHPickerViewController
(configuration: configuration)
        picker.delegate 
=
 
self

        
        
// The client is responsible for presentation and dismissal

        present(picker, animated: 
true
)
    }
    
    
func
 
picker
(
_
 
picker
: 
PHPickerViewController
, 
didFinishPicking
 
results
: [
PHPickerResult
])
 {
        
// The client is responsible for presentation and dismissal

        picker.dismiss(animated: 
true
)
        
        
// Get the first item provider from the results, the configuration only allowed one image to be selected

        
let
 itemProvider 
=
 results.first
?
.itemProvider
        
        
if
 
let
 itemProvider 
=
 itemProvider, itemProvider.canLoadObject(ofClass: 
UIImage
.
self
) {
            itemProvider.loadObject(ofClass: 
UIImage
.
self
) { (image, error) 
in

                
// 
TODO:
 Do something with the image or handle the error

            }
        } 
else
 {
            
// 
TODO:
 Handle empty results or item provider not being able load UIImage

        }
    }
}
```

```swift
import
 UIKit

import
 PhotosUI


class
 
ViewController
: 
UIViewController
 
{
    
    
@IBOutlet
 
weak
 
var
 imageView: 
UIImageView
!
    
    
@IBAction
 
func
 
presentPicker
(
_
 
sender
: 
Any
)
 {
        
var
 configuration 
=
 
PHPickerConfiguration
()
        configuration.filter 
=
 .images
        
        
let
 picker 
=
 
PHPickerViewController
(configuration: configuration)
        picker.delegate 
=
 
self

        present(picker, animated: 
true
)
    }
    
}


extension
 
ViewController
: 
PHPickerViewControllerDelegate
 
{
    
    
func
 
picker
(
_
 
picker
: 
PHPickerViewController
, 
didFinishPicking
 
results
: [
PHPickerResult
])
 {
        dismiss(animated: 
true
)
        
        
if
 
let
 itemProvider 
=
 results.first
?
.itemProvider, itemProvider.canLoadObject(ofClass: 
UIImage
.
self
) {
            
let
 previousImage 
=
 imageView.image
            itemProvider.loadObject(ofClass: 
UIImage
.
self
) { [
weak
 
self
] image, error 
in

                
DispatchQueue
.main.async {
                    
guard
 
let
 
self
 
=
 
self
, 
let
 image 
=
 image 
as?
 
UIImage
, 
self
.imageView.image 
==
 previousImage 
else
 { 
return
 }
                    
self
.imageView.image 
=
 image
                }
            }
        }
    }
    
}
```

```swift
import
 UIKit

import
 PhotosUI


class
 
ViewController
: 
UIViewController
 
{
    
    
@IBOutlet
 
weak
 
var
 imageView: 
UIImageView
!
    
    
var
 itemProviders: [
NSItemProvider
] 
=
 []
    
var
 iterator: 
IndexingIterator
<[
NSItemProvider
]>?
    
    
@IBAction
 
func
 
presentPicker
(
_
 
sender
: 
Any
)
 {
        
var
 configuration 
=
 
PHPickerConfiguration
()
        configuration.filter 
=
 .images
        configuration.selectionLimit 
=
 
0

        
        
let
 picker 
=
 
PHPickerViewController
(configuration: configuration)
        picker.delegate 
=
 
self

        present(picker, animated: 
true
)
    }
    
    
func
 
displayNextImage
()
 {
        
if
 
let
 itemProvider 
=
 iterator
?
.next(), itemProvider.canLoadObject(ofClass: 
UIImage
.
self
) {
            
let
 previousImage 
=
 imageView.image
            itemProvider.loadObject(ofClass: 
UIImage
.
self
) { [
weak
 
self
] image, error 
in

                
DispatchQueue
.main.async {
                    
guard
 
let
 
self
 
=
 
self
, 
let
 image 
=
 image 
as?
 
UIImage
, 
self
.imageView.image 
==
 previousImage 
else
 { 
return
 }
                    
self
.imageView.image 
=
 image
                }
            }
        }
    }
    
    
override
 
func
 
touchesEnded
(
_
 
touches
: 
Set
<
UITouch
>, 
with
 
event
: 
UIEvent
?)
 {
        displayNextImage()
    }
    
}


extension
 
ViewController
: 
PHPickerViewControllerDelegate
 
{
    
    
func
 
picker
(
_
 
picker
: 
PHPickerViewController
, 
didFinishPicking
 
results
: [
PHPickerResult
])
 {
        dismiss(animated: 
true
)
        
        itemProviders 
=
 results.map(\.itemProvider)
        iterator 
=
 itemProviders.makeIterator()
        displayNextImage()
    }
    
}
```

```swift
import
 UIKit

import
 PhotosUI


class
 
PhotoKitPickerViewController
: 
UIViewController
, 
PHPickerViewControllerDelegate
 
{
    
@IBAction
 
func
 
presentPicker
(
_
 
sender
: 
Any
)
 {
        
let
 photoLibrary 
=
 
PHPhotoLibrary
.shared()
        
let
 configuration 
=
 
PHPickerConfiguration
(photoLibrary: photoLibrary)
        
let
 picker 
=
 
PHPickerViewController
(configuration: configuration)
        picker.delegate 
=
 
self

        present(picker, animated: 
true
)
    }
    
    
func
 
picker
(
_
 
picker
: 
PHPickerViewController
, 
didFinishPicking
 
results
: [
PHPickerResult
])
 {
        picker.dismiss(animated: 
true
)
        
        
let
 identifiers 
=
 results.compactMap(\.assetIdentifier)
        
let
 fetchResult 
=
 
PHAsset
.fetchAssets(withLocalIdentifiers: identifiers, options: 
nil
)
        
        
// 
TODO:
 Do something with the fetch result if you have Photos Library access

    }
}
```

