# Wwdc2020 10207

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

SF Symbols 2SF Symbols make it easy to adopt high-quality, Apple-designed symbols created to look great with San Francisco, the system font for all Apple platforms. Discover how you can use SF Symbols in AppKit, UIKit, and SwiftUI. Learn how to work with SF Symbols in common design tools and how to use them in code. And we'll walk you through the latest updates, including additions to the repertoire, alignment improvements, changes with right-to-left localization, and multicolor symbols.

This session focuses on the latest features in SF Symbols 2. While not required, we recommend watching "Introducing SF Symbols" from WWDC19. If you're planning to incorporate symbol assets into SwiftUI, you may also benefit from watching “Building Custom Views with SwiftUI."ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC21Explore the SF Symbols 3 appWhat’s new in SF SymbolsWWDC20Adopt the new look of macOSThe details of UI typographyWhat's new in SwiftUIWWDC19Building Custom Views with SwiftUIFont Management and Text ScalingIntroducing SF Symbols

SF Symbols make it easy to adopt high-quality, Apple-designed symbols created to look great with San Francisco, the system font for all Apple platforms. Discover how you can use SF Symbols in AppKit, UIKit, and SwiftUI. Learn how to work with SF Symbols in common design tools and how to use them in code. And we'll walk you through the latest updates, including additions to the repertoire, alignment improvements, changes with right-to-left localization, and multicolor symbols.

This session focuses on the latest features in SF Symbols 2. While not required, we recommend watching "Introducing SF Symbols" from WWDC19. If you're planning to incorporate symbol assets into SwiftUI, you may also benefit from watching “Building Custom Views with SwiftUI."

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Explore the SF Symbols 3 app

What’s new in SF Symbols

Adopt the new look of macOS

The details of UI typography

What's new in SwiftUI

Building Custom Views with SwiftUI

Font Management and Text Scaling

Introducing SF Symbols

Search this video…Hello and welcome to WWDC. Hi I'm Thalia and together with Paolo we'rehere to go through what's new in SF Symbols.Today we're going to have a recap of what SF Symbols is in the basics.We're going to look at some new additions and refinements. We will talkabout localized symbols and how you can make your apps awesome with them.We will see how to deal with old and new symbols when targeting differentOS versions. We will talk about colors. And lastly we're going to talkabout layouts when using SF Symbols. So let's get started.At Apple we design interfaces for apps and devices that millions of peopleuse around the world. When we design at this scale, it is essential to havea visual system that the embodies ideas giving more substantial meaning torepresentations of actions objects and even more abstract concepts like language.That's why we designed SF Symbols, a consistent and flexible library of iconography,we introduced last year, that is designed to seamlessly integrate with thesystem font, San Francisco. All the San Francisco families: SF Pro,SF Pro, Rounded, SF Compact and SF Compact Rounded.When symbols appear next to text they are vertically centered with a cap height,still there are other typography guidelines we need to consider. Let's lookat the baseline. The baseline is the imaginary line upon which the text rests,and all of typographic elements are related to it. While text always sitson the baseline, that's not necessarily true for symbols. The relationshipof the symbols with the baseline works in a bit of a different way.Indeed, symbols are designed to work next to text. But we take the baselineas a flexible guide when creating one. Some can sit above the baseline,like the infinity symbol. And some symbols can descend below it, like thefolder symbol. This is intended and it's meant to optically balance theshape of the symbol with San Francisco. So consider this when designingyour own symbols. All symbols come in three scales: Small, medium and large,with medium being the default scale. The symbol scales can be used to varythe emphasis of a symbol relative to the text it sits adjacent to, whileremaining weight matched and vertically centered with text. Let's take alook at the scales in more detail. Small symbols are approximately 20 percentsmaller than the medium scale and large symbols are about 30 percent largerthan the medium scale. But as we can see, only scaling the symbol will makethem appear to have different weights. Of all the symbols the small scalelooks lighter and the large scale looks bolder.It's a very subtle difference but we make some weight compensations whichallow us to maintain the same stroke thickness making the symbols look weightmatched not only between the scales but also with text. Here are some examples.Different scales may be appropriate based on the amount of vertical spacesurrounding a symbol in a container. Remember, the point size of all thesesymbols is the same relative to the text. It's just the scale of the symbolthat changes. You've seen SF Symbols in the user interfaces since last yearthroughout the system and the apps we make. But also from you. These areonly some of the examples of what you have made. The response has beentruly amazing. Let's look at how to use SF Symbols with an example.We're going to see how to do this in design tools and in code. We're going to usethe SF Symbols app and Xcode. The SF Symbols app has been updated and a betaversion is available for download from the Apple Developer website likebefore. It comes with a version of the system fonts suitable for design tools.And these fonts have symbols in them. So here's the app I'm working on forour example. This is a great opportunity to use symbols. With symbols,we can make the play and the shuffle button more distinctive and recognizable.To do that let's look at it in a design tool. Like Sketch.Here's my document with the interface I'm working on. I have installed theSF Symbols app and the fonts that come with it. We now need to add the playand the shuffle symbols. To do that, let's go to the SF Symbols app, go intothe search field and look for it. Here it is. Now I just copy the symbolwith our usual shortcut command-C or using the Edit dropdown menu.Then I'll just paste it in my artwork. That's it. That's all I need. See herethat I have my text set up to 17 points for the text and for the symbol.I can then do the same for the shuffle symbol. I'll go back to the app.Search for it. Then I'll just copy. And paste it.Nothing changes.This is a good spot to learn how to do this in code. To do that,here's Paolo to show us how.Here we have the same view implemented in you UIKit. I construct my imagewith your UIImage systemName and set it to my view. The initializer takesa symbol name so I look for the symbol name in the app and go to theapp, search for play, and here it is. It's called "play.fill".Good, one down. For the next one, Thalia tells me it's called "shuffle."So I go back to the app, search for shuffle and indeed here it is.Pro tip, I can copy the symbol name with shift-command-C and paste that directly into Xcode.Careful here. I copy the symbol name not the symbol itself. If you copythe symbol it will not work. Now we are ready to build and run.And our symbols are showing up. That's cool, but in this instance wecan do better. If we look at the relationship between the text and the symbol,the symbol appears too big. We can actually select a different scale forthe symbol. And remember we are not changing the point size. In Sketch,we can do this by selecting the small scale stylistic set from the text menu.Now let's do the same for the shuffle symbol, again let's select a small scale.Also notice here, how when I change the scale the symbol remains optically centeredand weight matched with the text. And to change the symbol scaling code weare going to use the symbol configuration for that. So I just constructmy UIImage symbolConfiguration with a scale. And I'm done. I could bedone here but there is a better way. Let's take it up a notch and configurethe symbol with the same text style as the font, so the symbol can resize wellwith Dynamic Type. We can do that by passing the textStyle argument to oursymbol configuration. In this case we have a headline. If we build and runnow, we can see that symbols follow the selected text size. If I have itset to large size, text and symbols go big. If a pick a small size, text andsymbols resize accordingly. This is the kind of behavior we can only getif we use text styles. If you've been using SwiftUI instead, then usingsymbols looks like this. Call image with system name, to get an image ofthe symbol back. Change its scale with the image scale modifier and changeother parameters of the configuration like point size, font weight or aswe've seen text style, via the font modifier. New this year we have the veryconvenient "Label" which lets us construct a very common UI element, all inone go. And we also have a handy way to do text attachments by combiningtext and image. For more information make sure to check out the "What'sNew in SwiftUI" session. This is all great but this app also works on macOSand it is not a Catalyst app. Here's what it looks like in Big Sur.We're thrilled to announce that starting from macOS Big Sur, SF Symbols arealso available on the Mac natively. Now, for the first time, all platformscan benefit from this unified iconography. In design, nothing changes.The way I use symbols is identical to the other platforms. In code, we can usesymbols with the new NSImage API which can take an accessibility descriptionin the constructor. So here we have it. Our music app in its full gloryusing SF Symbols on macOS. As part of the UI redesign for macOS,not only did we bring SF Symbols to the Mac, we also have some additionsand refinements. In iOS 13 we shipped more than 1,500 hundred symbols.Now we have more than 750 new ones. We have some devices,some for transportation, some symbols related to game controllers and evensome human-related symbols. And all these are neatly organized in the app, with categories.And not only does the app come with some predefined categories, but youcan also create your own collections now. For example if I'm designing anapp related to sounds and music and I want to have all the symbols I wantto use in one easy accessible place, I can create a collection based onmy selection. Name it "Music" in this case and even add or delete more symbol as I go.Another improvement is for when symbols are laid out vertically. This isespecially true for symbols that have variants with badges. For instanceif we focus on folder and folder-related symbols you can see how more oftenthan not we want to align the symbols so that the badge extends beyondthe folder itself. This is an optical alignment so you should use yourbest judgment if you are creating your own symbols.This is a great opportunity to have another look at the template. If you'renot familiar with the template, it is that artifact that is a design sourcefile, that I can export from the SF Symbols app, modify and directly import intoXcode as is. There are three rows one for each symbol scale: small, medium, large.And nine columns. One for each weight from ultralight to black. Each oneof these symbols is in its own layer with a unique descriptive identifier.And theses layer names are vital to the integrity of the file. So make surethat if you customize the template you maintain the structure. We havea new version of the template now. It is labeled as version 2. It's prettymuch identical to version 1, especially in terms of structure. But ifwe zoom in there's one important difference. The margins are not rectanglesanymore, but lines. This is what lets us set positive or negative margins.In this case the margin on the left is positive and the one on the rightis negative because it tucks in, overlapping with the outlines of the symbol.The color is not important here, it's just a visual indicator, it's their nameand position that matters. In code, nothing changes. I still call my symbolas before. But when I go use the symbol, the margins produce the correct alignment,that Thalia was just describing.So let's talk about localization. As we know English uses the Latin alphabetwhich is a left-to-right writing system. But in other locales the writingsystem is right-to-left, like Arabic or Hebrew. We've had localized symbolssince last year. Now we have more. Remember that these localize automatically,so there's no need to call out the localized variants in your spec. If a symbolis localized the app will show you what these variants are.To implement this for your custom symbols there's nothing new. Remember tolocalize your asset catalog and assign a locale to each SVG template.In some cases we do need a different design that properly responds to thedesign sensibilities of the locale. But in some other cases,in right-to-left locales, we can just flip the symbol as is. To achieve this, set thedirection of the symbol to "mirrors". This is also a good spot for a quickword on how to handle deprecated names and new symbols when it comes totargeting previous versions of the OS.SF Symbols naming system is assigned to have internal consistency and therepertoire keeps growing as we introduce more symbols this year.Let's look at this example. In the case of the "bin" symbols, we have bins withX marks and arrows pointing up. We have filled variants and circle variants too.We strive to keep consistency in the naming scheme. That's why, what wascalled, "bin.xmark" is now "xmark.bin". The shape that we named "bin"moved to preserve coherence with the system.So how should you deal with that when targeting different OSes?First of all this information is available to you when browsing symbols in the SFSymbols app. So if your app minimum deployment target is iOS 13, you shouldbe looking for symbols available in that version of the OS. Those symbolsmay have a different name from the latest version of the OS, so if your backwardsdeploying to iOS 13 you have to use the old name. The new name will notbe available there. But if your minimum deployment target is iOS 14 insteadthen you should use the new name. Xcode is aware of these name changes andwill warn you accordingly if you're using storyboards. If you're not carefulabout this, people using your app will likely see no symbol, or worse evenget a crash, which is definitely not a great experience.OK next, let's talk about colors. Symbols can be colored. As of last yearby default, they take the tint color of the app. As a reference,here's how Calendar does it. But there are some cases where we want one symbolto come with more than one color. Like in the Weather widget. The symbolsrelated to the weather are way more effective if they come in multiple colors.And sometimes we want both. We want part of the symbol to reflect thetint color but also come with some pre-tinted parts. Well we're happy toannounce that all of this is possible now with multicolor symbols. A setof predefined color symbols to use in your UIs. You can accessthem by the color mode preview in the app, through the toolbar button orwith the multicolor category. You can also choose between the two previewmodes, monochrome for the black and white version of the symbol and multicolorfor the colored version. In my specs I will just make sure to annotatesymbols with multicolor. These colors adapt dynamically with appearances,just like system colors. In code,this is done by asking for a version of the symbol image with a differentrendering mode. Pass true to .setTemplate for the monochrome tint-able symbol,and this is the default behavior by the way, and pass false to get the multicolor version.Speaking of specs let's have a refresher of the benefits of using symbolsin layouts. Here's an example of a spec. In this case it is for Mail.We have a pretty standard macOS sidebar layout with symbols and text nextto each other.The symbols here specify a scale and a point size. The same point sizeas the text. Symbols and text are baseline-aligned. There should be no surpriseshere by now. On the vertical axis the labels are leading-aligned and mycolumn of symbols is center-aligned. This may be different from what you'reused to if you're coming from a pre-symbols world.Notice here I do not specify frames. Symbols are not designed to be constrainedin frames with a specific size. It's the typographic nature of symbols thatreally makes it easy to spec, as if they were text. This frees you fromhaving to specify frames and alignments that will make it really hard, ifnot impossible to leverage all the features of SF Symbols.Symbols have their own size. They will occupy a different amount of surfaceon the screen but they're coherent relative to each other. So don't forcethem into a frame. Be wary of anything that uses sizeThatFits and symbols.As long as symbols have the same text style or point size, you will be good.Also make sure to use center alignments rather than aspect fit or scaleto fit. And check your content gravity is set to centered, if you're usingCALayers, especially when symbols are enclosed in a well-defined area.When laying symbols next to text, remember to align them to the base linenot to align them to their center. And vertically use alignment guides tomake the symbols and text grow harmoniously when text gets resized.OK, so let's recap all we've covered. We have a new version of the app andnew features. We have hundreds of new symbols. Some of the existing symbolsgot new names and we saw how to deal with them. Remember to use the oldestname for the minimum OS you're targeting. We also saw how to use SFSymbols on macOS with a new NSImage API in AppKit. We sawhow to deal with localized symbols. And we have new multicolor symbols now.And how to use them with a different rendering mode. And lastly we hada refresher on how to spec for symbol images by not specifying frames butsymbol configurations and alignments. I hope you enjoyed learning about allthe new features of SF Symbols and we are looking forward to seeing whatyou will do.

Hello and welcome to WWDC. Hi I'm Thalia and together with Paolo we'rehere to go through what's new in SF Symbols.Today we're going to have a recap of what SF Symbols is in the basics.

We're going to look at some new additions and refinements. We will talkabout localized symbols and how you can make your apps awesome with them.

We will see how to deal with old and new symbols when targeting differentOS versions. We will talk about colors. And lastly we're going to talkabout layouts when using SF Symbols. So let's get started.

At Apple we design interfaces for apps and devices that millions of peopleuse around the world. When we design at this scale, it is essential to havea visual system that the embodies ideas giving more substantial meaning torepresentations of actions objects and even more abstract concepts like language.That's why we designed SF Symbols, a consistent and flexible library of iconography,we introduced last year, that is designed to seamlessly integrate with thesystem font, San Francisco. All the San Francisco families: SF Pro,SF Pro, Rounded, SF Compact and SF Compact Rounded.

When symbols appear next to text they are vertically centered with a cap height,still there are other typography guidelines we need to consider. Let's lookat the baseline. The baseline is the imaginary line upon which the text rests,and all of typographic elements are related to it. While text always sitson the baseline, that's not necessarily true for symbols. The relationshipof the symbols with the baseline works in a bit of a different way.Indeed, symbols are designed to work next to text. But we take the baselineas a flexible guide when creating one. Some can sit above the baseline,like the infinity symbol. And some symbols can descend below it, like thefolder symbol. This is intended and it's meant to optically balance theshape of the symbol with San Francisco. So consider this when designingyour own symbols. All symbols come in three scales: Small, medium and large,with medium being the default scale. The symbol scales can be used to varythe emphasis of a symbol relative to the text it sits adjacent to, whileremaining weight matched and vertically centered with text. Let's take alook at the scales in more detail. Small symbols are approximately 20 percentsmaller than the medium scale and large symbols are about 30 percent largerthan the medium scale. But as we can see, only scaling the symbol will makethem appear to have different weights. Of all the symbols the small scalelooks lighter and the large scale looks bolder.

It's a very subtle difference but we make some weight compensations whichallow us to maintain the same stroke thickness making the symbols look weightmatched not only between the scales but also with text. Here are some examples.Different scales may be appropriate based on the amount of vertical spacesurrounding a symbol in a container. Remember, the point size of all thesesymbols is the same relative to the text. It's just the scale of the symbolthat changes. You've seen SF Symbols in the user interfaces since last yearthroughout the system and the apps we make. But also from you. These areonly some of the examples of what you have made. The response has beentruly amazing. Let's look at how to use SF Symbols with an example.We're going to see how to do this in design tools and in code. We're going to usethe SF Symbols app and Xcode. The SF Symbols app has been updated and a betaversion is available for download from the Apple Developer website likebefore. It comes with a version of the system fonts suitable for design tools.And these fonts have symbols in them. So here's the app I'm working on forour example. This is a great opportunity to use symbols. With symbols,we can make the play and the shuffle button more distinctive and recognizable.To do that let's look at it in a design tool. Like Sketch.

Here's my document with the interface I'm working on. I have installed theSF Symbols app and the fonts that come with it. We now need to add the playand the shuffle symbols. To do that, let's go to the SF Symbols app, go intothe search field and look for it. Here it is. Now I just copy the symbolwith our usual shortcut command-C or using the Edit dropdown menu.Then I'll just paste it in my artwork. That's it. That's all I need. See herethat I have my text set up to 17 points for the text and for the symbol.I can then do the same for the shuffle symbol. I'll go back to the app.

Search for it. Then I'll just copy. And paste it.

Nothing changes.This is a good spot to learn how to do this in code. To do that,here's Paolo to show us how.Here we have the same view implemented in you UIKit. I construct my imagewith your UIImage systemName and set it to my view. The initializer takesa symbol name so I look for the symbol name in the app and go to theapp, search for play, and here it is. It's called "play.fill".Good, one down. For the next one, Thalia tells me it's called "shuffle."So I go back to the app, search for shuffle and indeed here it is.Pro tip, I can copy the symbol name with shift-command-C and paste that directly into Xcode.Careful here. I copy the symbol name not the symbol itself. If you copythe symbol it will not work. Now we are ready to build and run.

And our symbols are showing up. That's cool, but in this instance wecan do better. If we look at the relationship between the text and the symbol,the symbol appears too big. We can actually select a different scale forthe symbol. And remember we are not changing the point size. In Sketch,we can do this by selecting the small scale stylistic set from the text menu.

Now let's do the same for the shuffle symbol, again let's select a small scale.

Also notice here, how when I change the scale the symbol remains optically centeredand weight matched with the text. And to change the symbol scaling code weare going to use the symbol configuration for that. So I just constructmy UIImage symbolConfiguration with a scale. And I'm done. I could bedone here but there is a better way. Let's take it up a notch and configurethe symbol with the same text style as the font, so the symbol can resize wellwith Dynamic Type. We can do that by passing the textStyle argument to oursymbol configuration. In this case we have a headline. If we build and runnow, we can see that symbols follow the selected text size. If I have itset to large size, text and symbols go big. If a pick a small size, text andsymbols resize accordingly. This is the kind of behavior we can only getif we use text styles. If you've been using SwiftUI instead, then usingsymbols looks like this. Call image with system name, to get an image ofthe symbol back. Change its scale with the image scale modifier and changeother parameters of the configuration like point size, font weight or aswe've seen text style, via the font modifier. New this year we have the veryconvenient "Label" which lets us construct a very common UI element, all inone go. And we also have a handy way to do text attachments by combiningtext and image. For more information make sure to check out the "What'sNew in SwiftUI" session. This is all great but this app also works on macOSand it is not a Catalyst app. Here's what it looks like in Big Sur.We're thrilled to announce that starting from macOS Big Sur, SF Symbols arealso available on the Mac natively. Now, for the first time, all platformscan benefit from this unified iconography. In design, nothing changes.The way I use symbols is identical to the other platforms. In code, we can usesymbols with the new NSImage API which can take an accessibility descriptionin the constructor. So here we have it. Our music app in its full gloryusing SF Symbols on macOS. As part of the UI redesign for macOS,not only did we bring SF Symbols to the Mac, we also have some additionsand refinements. In iOS 13 we shipped more than 1,500 hundred symbols.

Now we have more than 750 new ones. We have some devices,some for transportation, some symbols related to game controllers and evensome human-related symbols. And all these are neatly organized in the app, with categories.And not only does the app come with some predefined categories, but youcan also create your own collections now. For example if I'm designing anapp related to sounds and music and I want to have all the symbols I wantto use in one easy accessible place, I can create a collection based onmy selection. Name it "Music" in this case and even add or delete more symbol as I go.

Another improvement is for when symbols are laid out vertically. This isespecially true for symbols that have variants with badges. For instanceif we focus on folder and folder-related symbols you can see how more oftenthan not we want to align the symbols so that the badge extends beyondthe folder itself. This is an optical alignment so you should use yourbest judgment if you are creating your own symbols.

This is a great opportunity to have another look at the template. If you'renot familiar with the template, it is that artifact that is a design sourcefile, that I can export from the SF Symbols app, modify and directly import intoXcode as is. There are three rows one for each symbol scale: small, medium, large.And nine columns. One for each weight from ultralight to black. Each oneof these symbols is in its own layer with a unique descriptive identifier.And theses layer names are vital to the integrity of the file. So make surethat if you customize the template you maintain the structure. We havea new version of the template now. It is labeled as version 2. It's prettymuch identical to version 1, especially in terms of structure. But ifwe zoom in there's one important difference. The margins are not rectanglesanymore, but lines. This is what lets us set positive or negative margins.

In this case the margin on the left is positive and the one on the rightis negative because it tucks in, overlapping with the outlines of the symbol.

The color is not important here, it's just a visual indicator, it's their nameand position that matters. In code, nothing changes. I still call my symbolas before. But when I go use the symbol, the margins produce the correct alignment,that Thalia was just describing.

So let's talk about localization. As we know English uses the Latin alphabetwhich is a left-to-right writing system. But in other locales the writingsystem is right-to-left, like Arabic or Hebrew. We've had localized symbolssince last year. Now we have more. Remember that these localize automatically,so there's no need to call out the localized variants in your spec. If a symbolis localized the app will show you what these variants are.

To implement this for your custom symbols there's nothing new. Remember tolocalize your asset catalog and assign a locale to each SVG template.In some cases we do need a different design that properly responds to thedesign sensibilities of the locale. But in some other cases,in right-to-left locales, we can just flip the symbol as is. To achieve this, set thedirection of the symbol to "mirrors". This is also a good spot for a quickword on how to handle deprecated names and new symbols when it comes totargeting previous versions of the OS.SF Symbols naming system is assigned to have internal consistency and therepertoire keeps growing as we introduce more symbols this year.Let's look at this example. In the case of the "bin" symbols, we have bins withX marks and arrows pointing up. We have filled variants and circle variants too.

We strive to keep consistency in the naming scheme. That's why, what wascalled, "bin.xmark" is now "xmark.bin". The shape that we named "bin"moved to preserve coherence with the system.

So how should you deal with that when targeting different OSes?First of all this information is available to you when browsing symbols in the SFSymbols app. So if your app minimum deployment target is iOS 13, you shouldbe looking for symbols available in that version of the OS. Those symbolsmay have a different name from the latest version of the OS, so if your backwardsdeploying to iOS 13 you have to use the old name. The new name will notbe available there. But if your minimum deployment target is iOS 14 insteadthen you should use the new name. Xcode is aware of these name changes andwill warn you accordingly if you're using storyboards. If you're not carefulabout this, people using your app will likely see no symbol, or worse evenget a crash, which is definitely not a great experience.

OK next, let's talk about colors. Symbols can be colored. As of last yearby default, they take the tint color of the app. As a reference,here's how Calendar does it. But there are some cases where we want one symbolto come with more than one color. Like in the Weather widget. The symbolsrelated to the weather are way more effective if they come in multiple colors.

And sometimes we want both. We want part of the symbol to reflect thetint color but also come with some pre-tinted parts. Well we're happy toannounce that all of this is possible now with multicolor symbols. A setof predefined color symbols to use in your UIs. You can accessthem by the color mode preview in the app, through the toolbar button orwith the multicolor category. You can also choose between the two previewmodes, monochrome for the black and white version of the symbol and multicolorfor the colored version. In my specs I will just make sure to annotatesymbols with multicolor. These colors adapt dynamically with appearances,just like system colors. In code,this is done by asking for a version of the symbol image with a differentrendering mode. Pass true to .setTemplate for the monochrome tint-able symbol,and this is the default behavior by the way, and pass false to get the multicolor version.

Speaking of specs let's have a refresher of the benefits of using symbolsin layouts. Here's an example of a spec. In this case it is for Mail.We have a pretty standard macOS sidebar layout with symbols and text nextto each other.

The symbols here specify a scale and a point size. The same point sizeas the text. Symbols and text are baseline-aligned. There should be no surpriseshere by now. On the vertical axis the labels are leading-aligned and mycolumn of symbols is center-aligned. This may be different from what you'reused to if you're coming from a pre-symbols world.Notice here I do not specify frames. Symbols are not designed to be constrainedin frames with a specific size. It's the typographic nature of symbols thatreally makes it easy to spec, as if they were text. This frees you fromhaving to specify frames and alignments that will make it really hard, ifnot impossible to leverage all the features of SF Symbols.

Symbols have their own size. They will occupy a different amount of surfaceon the screen but they're coherent relative to each other. So don't forcethem into a frame. Be wary of anything that uses sizeThatFits and symbols.As long as symbols have the same text style or point size, you will be good.

Also make sure to use center alignments rather than aspect fit or scaleto fit. And check your content gravity is set to centered, if you're usingCALayers, especially when symbols are enclosed in a well-defined area.

When laying symbols next to text, remember to align them to the base linenot to align them to their center. And vertically use alignment guides tomake the symbols and text grow harmoniously when text gets resized.OK, so let's recap all we've covered. We have a new version of the app andnew features. We have hundreds of new symbols. Some of the existing symbolsgot new names and we saw how to deal with them. Remember to use the oldestname for the minimum OS you're targeting. We also saw how to use SFSymbols on macOS with a new NSImage API in AppKit. We sawhow to deal with localized symbols. And we have new multicolor symbols now.

And how to use them with a different rendering mode. And lastly we hada refresher on how to spec for symbol images by not specifying frames butsymbol configurations and alignments. I hope you enjoyed learning about allthe new features of SF Symbols and we are looking forward to seeing whatyou will do.

5:29 -Symbol usage demo, part 1

6:07 -Symbol usage demo, wrong string to initializer

7:01 -Symbol usage demo, scales

7:13 -Symbol usage demo, textStyles

7:44 -SwiftUI symbol usage

8:10 -SF Symbols in SwiftUI (Label)

8:12 -SF Symbols in SwiftUI (Text + Image)

8:52 -Using SF Symbols in AppKit

11:45 -Symbol initializer for old and new templates

15:44 -Tinting symbols in AppKit

18:10 -Using symbols in AppKit, recap

18:24 -Using color symbols recap

## Code Samples

```swift
// SF Symbols: simple usage and symbol configuration



import
 UIKit


class
 
MainPlayerViewController
: 
UIViewController
 
{

    
@IBOutlet
 
weak
 
var
 playButton: 
UIButton
!
    
@IBOutlet
 
weak
 
var
 shuffleButton: 
UIButton
!
    
@IBOutlet
 
weak
 
var
 playImageView: 
UIImageView
!
    
@IBOutlet
 
weak
 
var
 shuffleImageView: 
UIImageView
!

    
override
 
func
 
viewDidLoad
()
 {
        
super
.viewDidLoad()
        setupButtons()
    }

    
func
 
setupButtons
()
 {
        playImageView.image 
=
 
UIImage
(systemName: 
""
)
        shuffleImageView.image 
=
 
UIImage
(systemName: 
""
)
    }

    
@IBAction
 
func
 
playAction
(
_
 
sender
: 
Any
)
 {
    }
    
    
@IBAction
 
func
 
shuffleAction
(
_
 
sender
: 
Any
)
 {
    }
    
}
```

```swift
// do NOT use symbol characters in code



let
 shuffleImage 
=
 
UIImage
(systemName: 
"􀊝"
)







// always use symbol names in code



let
 shuffleImage 
=
 
UIImage
(systemName: 
"shuffle"
)
```

```swift
// SF Symbols: simple usage and symbol configuration



import
 UIKit


class
 
MainPlayerViewController
: 
UIViewController
 
{

    
@IBOutlet
 
weak
 
var
 playButton: 
UIButton
!
    
@IBOutlet
 
weak
 
var
 shuffleButton: 
UIButton
!
    
@IBOutlet
 
weak
 
var
 playImageView: 
UIImageView
!
    
@IBOutlet
 
weak
 
var
 shuffleImageView: 
UIImageView
!

    
override
 
func
 
viewDidLoad
()
 {
        
super
.viewDidLoad()
        setupButtons()
    }

    
func
 
setupButtons
()
 {
        
let
 buttonConfig 
=
 
UIImage
.
SymbolConfiguration
(scale: .small)
        playImageView.preferredSymbolConfiguration 
=
 buttonConfig
        playImageView.image 
=
 
UIImage
(systemName: 
"play.fill"
)
        shuffleImageView.preferredSymbolConfiguration 
=
 buttonConfig
        shuffleImageView.image 
=
 
UIImage
(systemName: 
"shuffle"
)
    }

    
@IBAction
 
func
 
playAction
(
_
 
sender
: 
Any
)
 {
    }
    
    
@IBAction
 
func
 
shuffleAction
(
_
 
sender
: 
Any
)
 {
    }
    
}
```

```swift
// SF Symbols: simple usage and symbol configuration



import
 UIKit


class
 
MainPlayerViewController
: 
UIViewController
 
{

    
@IBOutlet
 
weak
 
var
 playButton: 
UIButton
!
    
@IBOutlet
 
weak
 
var
 shuffleButton: 
UIButton
!
    
@IBOutlet
 
weak
 
var
 playImageView: 
UIImageView
!
    
@IBOutlet
 
weak
 
var
 shuffleImageView: 
UIImageView
!

    
override
 
func
 
viewDidLoad
()
 {
        
super
.viewDidLoad()
        setupButtons()
    }

    
func
 
setupButtons
()
 {
        
let
 buttonConfig 
=
 
UIImage
.
SymbolConfiguration
(textStyle: .headline, scale: .small)
        playImageView.preferredSymbolConfiguration 
=
 buttonConfig
        playImageView.image 
=
 
UIImage
(systemName: 
"play.fill"
)
        shuffleImageView.preferredSymbolConfiguration 
=
 buttonConfig
        shuffleImageView.image 
=
 
UIImage
(systemName: 
"shuffle"
)
    }

    
@IBAction
 
func
 
playAction
(
_
 
sender
: 
Any
)
 {
    }
    
    
@IBAction
 
func
 
shuffleAction
(
_
 
sender
: 
Any
)
 {
    }
    
}
```

```swift
// SF Symbols in SwiftUI


import
 SwiftUI


struct
 
ContentView
: 
View
 
{
    
var
 body: 
some
 
View
 {
        
Image
(systemName: 
"shuffle"
)
            .font(.headline)
            .imageScale(.small)
    }
}
```

```swift
// SF Symbols in SwiftUI


import
 SwiftUI


struct
 
ContentView
: 
View
 
{
    
var
 body: 
some
 
View
 {
        
Label
(
"Sharing location"
, 
              systemImage: 
"location.fill"
)
    }
}
```

```swift
// SF Symbols in SwiftUI


import
 SwiftUI


struct
 
ContentView
: 
View
 
{
    
var
 body: 
some
 
View
 {
        
let
 glyph 
=
 
Image
(systemName: 
"location.fill"
)
        
return
 
Text
(
"
\(glyph)
 Sharing location"
)
    }
}
```

```swift
// Using SF Symbols in AppKit



if
 
let
 shuffleImage 
=
 
NSImage
(
    systemSymbolName: 
"shuffle"
, accessibilityDescription: 
"shuffle"
) {
    shuffleImageView.image 
=
 shuffleImage
  
    
// Configure symbols

    
let
 config 
=
 
NSImage
.
SymbolConfiguration
(textStyle: .body, scale: .small)
    
let
 shuffleButtonImage 
=
 shuffleImage.withSymbolConfiguration(config)
}
```

```swift
// loading symbols from Template V1 and V2



let
 shuffleImage 
=
 
UIImage
(systemName: 
"shuffle"
)
```

```swift
// Tinting symbols



if
 
let
 folder 
=
 
NSImage
(
    systemSymbolName: 
"folder.badge.plus"
, accessibilityDescription: 
"add folder"
) {
    folder.isTemplate 
=
 
true

}


if
 
let
 folder 
=
 
NSImage
(
    systemSymbolName: 
"folder.badge.plus"
, accessibilityDescription: 
"add folder"
) {
    folder.isTemplate 
=
 
false

}
```

```swift
// Tinting symbols


folder.isTemplate 
=
 
true


folder.isTemplate 
=
 
false
```

