# Wwdc2020 10643

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Build a SwiftUI view in Swift PlaygroundsEasily prototype and play around with SwiftUI views when you use them with Swift Playgrounds. We'll show you how to build a SwiftUI view in a Xcode-compatible playground, and explore tools to help you easily edit and preview your code.

For more on Swift Playgrounds, check out our interactive challenge, “Swan's Quest”, and learn to build your own by watching “Create Swift Playgrounds Content for iPad and Mac”.ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC20Create Swift Playgrounds content for iPad and MacSwan's Quest, Chapter 1: Voices in the darkSwan's Quest, Chapter 2: A time for tonesSwan's Quest, Chapter 3: The notable scrollSwan's Quest, Chapter 4: The sequence completes

Easily prototype and play around with SwiftUI views when you use them with Swift Playgrounds. We'll show you how to build a SwiftUI view in a Xcode-compatible playground, and explore tools to help you easily edit and preview your code.

For more on Swift Playgrounds, check out our interactive challenge, “Swan's Quest”, and learn to build your own by watching “Create Swift Playgrounds Content for iPad and Mac”.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Create Swift Playgrounds content for iPad and Mac

Swan's Quest, Chapter 1: Voices in the dark

Swan's Quest, Chapter 2: A time for tones

Swan's Quest, Chapter 3: The notable scroll

Swan's Quest, Chapter 4: The sequence completes

Search this video…Hello and welcome to WWDC.Hi I'm Matt and I'm the engineering manager of the Swift Playground's team.And today I'm going to be walking you through the process of using SwiftPlayground's to prototype a SwiftUI view many people knows with Playground'sas a great way to learn to code using Swift. What you may not know is thatit's a full featured environment for prototyping and coding in Swift farbeyond the Learn to Code Series. Today we'll start out by creatinga Playground that's compatible with Xcode and showing a SwiftUI viewas the Playgrounds live for you. We'll take a tour of some of Swift Playgroundsunique editing features that can make prototyping faster and easier.And we'll look at how to move your code into multiple source files for buildingmore complex Playgrounds. Lastly we'll take a look at a couple of tricksfor building custom interactive previews with more than one SwiftUI viewat once. So as so many engineers do at one point in their lives I'm workingon building a task tracking app with tasks grouped into milestones fora particular project. One thing it's missing though is a nice summary ofmy progress through the project as a whole. I want to do a little somethinglike this. Now clearly my hand-drawn art isn't quite ready for primetime.So we're going to build this view using SwiftUI and I'm going to do itin a Playground. Today I'm using an iPad with a Magic Keyboard attachedbut you can do this just as easily using the onscreen keyboard or usingSwift Playground's on Mac. Since I know I'm gonna be bringing my work intoXcode when I'm done. I'm going to create a blank Xcode Playground ratherthan a blank Playground book. I can do that by tapping the see all button inthe bottom right hand corner of the screen scrolling to the end of thestarting points and then tapping get next to Xcode Playground which willcreate a new blank Xcode Playground in the top left corner of the my Playground screen.I'll give it a more interesting name before we start which I can do bytapping and holding or in my case two finger clicking on the Playgroundchoosing rename and then entering a new name.We'll call it "my progress view". I'll tap done and then can open the Playgroundby tapping on it.And we're ready to start coding. Since I'm building a SwiftUI view,the first thing I'm going to do is import SwiftUI.I'm also going to import the Playground support framework which is whatyou use to customize the behavior of your Playground including showinglive views. Next we'll create our view, which is going to be a struct called "ProgressView".It will conform to the view protocol and it will have a property calledbody which returns an opaque view type. For now let's just say "hello world".We're ready to show our view now. So I'll move down to the end of the documentand I'll use the Playground page type to access the current page and thencall the set the liveView method.Now you might have noticed that while I've been typing I've been gettingcompletion suggestions at the bottom of the screen. I can either tap thosewith my finger or in this case I'll click using the trackpad and then I'llcreate a new ProgressView. To see what this looks like I'll tap to runmy code button in the bottom right hand corner of the screen and voila.Our first SwiftUI view. Now this text is just a placeholder and I thinkwe want to get started by building out the basic shape of our live viewwhich if you remember from my crudely drawn mockup is kind of a circleytype shape. So I'll delete the text that I've written here,and replace it with a circle view the arc in the mockup has a blue strokeon the outside of it. So I'll use the stroke modifier and I'll start typingline width and then I can tap the first suggestion at the bottom the screento complete it. For now let's say 25.And since I'd like to indent my modifiers below the view that they belongto, I'm going to use the Command-right square bracket keyboard shortcutto indent the code. We'll also want to give this a foreground color and we'llset that color to blue. We can take a look at this by running it whichthis time I'm going to do using the Command-R keyboard shortcut and thenwe have it a blue circle. I'll admit it's a little bigger than I thoughtit was gonna be. And that stroke isn't quite as heavy as imagined either.But that's pretty easy to change. For the stroke with, I can either singletap or double click on 25 to select it and then we'll say maybe 40 instead.And we can give the view a little padding by adding a padding modifierof maybe 150. If I hit Command-R again this time it looks a lot closerto what I had in my head.The next thing we're going to build is the text in the middle that tellsus how far we are through our project as a percentage. So I'm going toadd a text view to contain that text and then put it in a ZStack with my circle.I'll click above the circle type ZStack and create a pair of curly braces.But rather than move my code inside of those braces manually I can tapon the ending brace or in this case hover my pointer over it, press, anddrag down to encompass the circle and it's modifiers. Finally we'll adda text view and for now we'll just hard code25 percent. If I hit Command-R, looking good. We're really cookingnow and making great progress through this view. So it's time to get.Oh well I guess our designer has actually already done all of the hardwork for us. It looks like they started their Playground and put it ina shared I cloud folder. So I'll close this document by tapping the X buttonin the top left hand corner and I can access files outside the Playground'sfolder by tapping the locations button. And there it is.So I'll open that and then I'll tap the run my code button, and you can see,yeah, they got a lot further along than I did. In fact it looks so good,I'm not sure what they want me to change about it. It's pretty perfect.Oh ok. So it looks like they want us to try tweaking with the colors alittle bit. So let's see if we can't make this look a little snazzier.It's really easy to play with colors in Swift Playgrounds because it hasan awesome built in color picker. So you can see on this line here at thetop of the screen we have the two gradient colors which are the SwiftUIcolors blue and purple. The color type actually has another initializerthat'll take a UIColor. So we'll use parentheses to open that. And thenif you look at the bottom of the screen one of the options there is this graysquare that represents a color literal. When I insert it, I get a colorpicker with tons of options provided by Swift Playground's.I think we'll pick this nice raspberry color for the first one and then forthe second color we'll follow the same steps. I'll open the parens, inserta color literal. And this time pick a nice deep purple. And now if I hitCommand-R you can see it looks a lot livelier than it did before.I think we're really about done with this now and ready to wrap it up.Unless of course our designer has other ideas, and they have a great suggestionas always. We should see what this looks like in Dark mode. Now one ofthe great things about working with SwiftUI in Swift Playground's is thatthis entire live view area is your canvas. So if I want to show my view morethan once I can do that really easily. First though I want to give myselfa little bit more breathing room in the main page. So we're going to moveProgressView to a file all of its own. I can add a new file by tappingon the file button in the top left hand corner or on a Mac by opening thesidebar and then tapping the new file button.I'll give it the name ProgressView. Press return to accept it and thenI can tap outside the popover to close it. And here we are a new emptyfile in it's own tab called ProgressView. I'll switch back over to the main page.And now what I want to do is move this entire ProgressView struct overinto the file we just created. I can do that by single tapping or two fingerclicking on the struct keyword and then choosing cut.I can then switch back over to the progress tab with the command shiftright brace keyboard shortcut, tap to enter code and then press Xmd-Vto paste and then we have it. It's in a file all its own. Right awayyou can see it has some issues though. The biggest one is that I haven'tyet imported SwiftUI into this file, so I'll do that.I'm also going to want to mark my struct public since it's now in a separatemodule so I'll do that as well. Now that I've done that you can see there'sone new issue for us to address. And if I tap on the issue dot it's remindingme that body needs to be made public as well. I'll tap fix to accept thefix it. And while I'm here I'm also going to mark the initializer as publicbecause I'm about to use it on the main page.I can use Command-Shift-left brace to switch back and if I hit Command-Ryou can see the live views unchanged.Now I want to look at two of these at the same time so I can compare whatit looks like in light mode versus dark mode. So to do that I'm going tocreate a new view to act as my preview.We'll create a struct called Preview that conforms to the view protocollike before. And in this case the body is going to be a VStack.We'll add a little bit of spacing. And inside it will create two ProgressViews.While we're at it I'm going to spruce it up a little bit so that it looks nice.I'm going to get rid of the padding we specified down below using optiondelete to delete by word and then I'm going to add some padding to the VStack.I'm also gonna add a background modifier so it's easier to see the differencesbetween the light and dark mode variants of our view.Here I'll use a color and I'll pass in the UIKit secondarySystemBackgroundcolor which I'll let code completion fill in for me. Lastly we'll switchthe progress view initializer at the bottom of the file to our new previewinitializer, by single tapping or double clicking its name and typing preview.I'll use Command-R to run and you can see that now I've got two differentpreviews of our ProgressView. I did want one of them to be in darkmode though. So for the second one I can add an environment modifier andwe'll set the color scheme to dark. Now when I hit Command-R you can seewe have one in light mode one in dark mode looking great.The last thing I want to do is take a look at how this view feels in actionwith different progress values and with animation. Since the live view isfully interactive. I'm going to do that by adding a button to step throughdifferent values in 25 percent increments. I notice that the progressview accepted double as an argument to its initializer. So let's wire thatup in our preview.I'll create a new state variable called Progress and I'll set that to 25percent. I can then pass that in to each of our ProgressViews.And when I hit Command-R the value updates. With that in place we can nowadd our button. I'll create a new method called increment which is justgoing to add 25 percent to our current progress value. And sinceI did promise animation we'll add a with animation block on top of it andlike before drag the closing brace to encompass our incrementing statement.Now I'll create a new button view inside our VStack and I'll set its actionto the method that we just created. Lastly we'll give our button a labelwhich is just going to be a text view with the message "increment progress".If I hit Command-R now, you can see we have a new button. And if I tap itwe have a working ProgressView.And that's building a SwiftUI view using Swift Playground's. In summarySwift Playground's has loads of features like color literals, brace draggingand a full suite of keyboard shortcuts that make it easier to edit complexcode. If you're gonna be bringing your work back to Xcode, it usually makessense to start with the Xcode Playground starting point. You can splityour code across multiple source files to make it easier to understand.This is especially useful with SwiftUI views where you can put your viewcode in a module and use your main source file for previews. And rememberyou can customize your previews and add interactivity by creating yourown views just for that purpose. Thanks for watching and enjoy the restof the awesome content from WWDC.

Hello and welcome to WWDC.

Hi I'm Matt and I'm the engineering manager of the Swift Playground's team.And today I'm going to be walking you through the process of using SwiftPlayground's to prototype a SwiftUI view many people knows with Playground'sas a great way to learn to code using Swift. What you may not know is thatit's a full featured environment for prototyping and coding in Swift farbeyond the Learn to Code Series. Today we'll start out by creatinga Playground that's compatible with Xcode and showing a SwiftUI viewas the Playgrounds live for you. We'll take a tour of some of Swift Playgroundsunique editing features that can make prototyping faster and easier.And we'll look at how to move your code into multiple source files for buildingmore complex Playgrounds. Lastly we'll take a look at a couple of tricksfor building custom interactive previews with more than one SwiftUI viewat once. So as so many engineers do at one point in their lives I'm workingon building a task tracking app with tasks grouped into milestones fora particular project. One thing it's missing though is a nice summary ofmy progress through the project as a whole. I want to do a little somethinglike this. Now clearly my hand-drawn art isn't quite ready for primetime.So we're going to build this view using SwiftUI and I'm going to do itin a Playground. Today I'm using an iPad with a Magic Keyboard attachedbut you can do this just as easily using the onscreen keyboard or usingSwift Playground's on Mac. Since I know I'm gonna be bringing my work intoXcode when I'm done. I'm going to create a blank Xcode Playground ratherthan a blank Playground book. I can do that by tapping the see all button inthe bottom right hand corner of the screen scrolling to the end of thestarting points and then tapping get next to Xcode Playground which willcreate a new blank Xcode Playground in the top left corner of the my Playground screen.I'll give it a more interesting name before we start which I can do bytapping and holding or in my case two finger clicking on the Playgroundchoosing rename and then entering a new name.We'll call it "my progress view". I'll tap done and then can open the Playgroundby tapping on it.

And we're ready to start coding. Since I'm building a SwiftUI view,the first thing I'm going to do is import SwiftUI.

I'm also going to import the Playground support framework which is whatyou use to customize the behavior of your Playground including showinglive views. Next we'll create our view, which is going to be a struct called "ProgressView".

It will conform to the view protocol and it will have a property calledbody which returns an opaque view type. For now let's just say "hello world".

We're ready to show our view now. So I'll move down to the end of the documentand I'll use the Playground page type to access the current page and thencall the set the liveView method.Now you might have noticed that while I've been typing I've been gettingcompletion suggestions at the bottom of the screen. I can either tap thosewith my finger or in this case I'll click using the trackpad and then I'llcreate a new ProgressView. To see what this looks like I'll tap to runmy code button in the bottom right hand corner of the screen and voila.Our first SwiftUI view. Now this text is just a placeholder and I thinkwe want to get started by building out the basic shape of our live viewwhich if you remember from my crudely drawn mockup is kind of a circleytype shape. So I'll delete the text that I've written here,and replace it with a circle view the arc in the mockup has a blue strokeon the outside of it. So I'll use the stroke modifier and I'll start typingline width and then I can tap the first suggestion at the bottom the screento complete it. For now let's say 25.And since I'd like to indent my modifiers below the view that they belongto, I'm going to use the Command-right square bracket keyboard shortcutto indent the code. We'll also want to give this a foreground color and we'llset that color to blue. We can take a look at this by running it whichthis time I'm going to do using the Command-R keyboard shortcut and thenwe have it a blue circle. I'll admit it's a little bigger than I thoughtit was gonna be. And that stroke isn't quite as heavy as imagined either.But that's pretty easy to change. For the stroke with, I can either singletap or double click on 25 to select it and then we'll say maybe 40 instead.

And we can give the view a little padding by adding a padding modifierof maybe 150. If I hit Command-R again this time it looks a lot closerto what I had in my head.The next thing we're going to build is the text in the middle that tellsus how far we are through our project as a percentage. So I'm going toadd a text view to contain that text and then put it in a ZStack with my circle.I'll click above the circle type ZStack and create a pair of curly braces.But rather than move my code inside of those braces manually I can tapon the ending brace or in this case hover my pointer over it, press, anddrag down to encompass the circle and it's modifiers. Finally we'll adda text view and for now we'll just hard code25 percent. If I hit Command-R, looking good. We're really cookingnow and making great progress through this view. So it's time to get.Oh well I guess our designer has actually already done all of the hardwork for us. It looks like they started their Playground and put it ina shared I cloud folder. So I'll close this document by tapping the X buttonin the top left hand corner and I can access files outside the Playground'sfolder by tapping the locations button. And there it is.So I'll open that and then I'll tap the run my code button, and you can see,yeah, they got a lot further along than I did. In fact it looks so good,I'm not sure what they want me to change about it. It's pretty perfect.Oh ok. So it looks like they want us to try tweaking with the colors alittle bit. So let's see if we can't make this look a little snazzier.It's really easy to play with colors in Swift Playgrounds because it hasan awesome built in color picker. So you can see on this line here at thetop of the screen we have the two gradient colors which are the SwiftUIcolors blue and purple. The color type actually has another initializerthat'll take a UIColor. So we'll use parentheses to open that. And thenif you look at the bottom of the screen one of the options there is this graysquare that represents a color literal. When I insert it, I get a colorpicker with tons of options provided by Swift Playground's.I think we'll pick this nice raspberry color for the first one and then forthe second color we'll follow the same steps. I'll open the parens, inserta color literal. And this time pick a nice deep purple. And now if I hitCommand-R you can see it looks a lot livelier than it did before.I think we're really about done with this now and ready to wrap it up.Unless of course our designer has other ideas, and they have a great suggestionas always. We should see what this looks like in Dark mode. Now one ofthe great things about working with SwiftUI in Swift Playground's is thatthis entire live view area is your canvas. So if I want to show my view morethan once I can do that really easily. First though I want to give myselfa little bit more breathing room in the main page. So we're going to moveProgressView to a file all of its own. I can add a new file by tappingon the file button in the top left hand corner or on a Mac by opening thesidebar and then tapping the new file button.

I'll give it the name ProgressView. Press return to accept it and thenI can tap outside the popover to close it. And here we are a new emptyfile in it's own tab called ProgressView. I'll switch back over to the main page.And now what I want to do is move this entire ProgressView struct overinto the file we just created. I can do that by single tapping or two fingerclicking on the struct keyword and then choosing cut.

I can then switch back over to the progress tab with the command shiftright brace keyboard shortcut, tap to enter code and then press Xmd-Vto paste and then we have it. It's in a file all its own. Right awayyou can see it has some issues though. The biggest one is that I haven'tyet imported SwiftUI into this file, so I'll do that.

I'm also going to want to mark my struct public since it's now in a separatemodule so I'll do that as well. Now that I've done that you can see there'sone new issue for us to address. And if I tap on the issue dot it's remindingme that body needs to be made public as well. I'll tap fix to accept thefix it. And while I'm here I'm also going to mark the initializer as publicbecause I'm about to use it on the main page.

I can use Command-Shift-left brace to switch back and if I hit Command-Ryou can see the live views unchanged.Now I want to look at two of these at the same time so I can compare whatit looks like in light mode versus dark mode. So to do that I'm going tocreate a new view to act as my preview.We'll create a struct called Preview that conforms to the view protocollike before. And in this case the body is going to be a VStack.We'll add a little bit of spacing. And inside it will create two ProgressViews.

While we're at it I'm going to spruce it up a little bit so that it looks nice.I'm going to get rid of the padding we specified down below using optiondelete to delete by word and then I'm going to add some padding to the VStack.

I'm also gonna add a background modifier so it's easier to see the differencesbetween the light and dark mode variants of our view.

Here I'll use a color and I'll pass in the UIKit secondarySystemBackgroundcolor which I'll let code completion fill in for me. Lastly we'll switchthe progress view initializer at the bottom of the file to our new previewinitializer, by single tapping or double clicking its name and typing preview.

I'll use Command-R to run and you can see that now I've got two differentpreviews of our ProgressView. I did want one of them to be in darkmode though. So for the second one I can add an environment modifier andwe'll set the color scheme to dark. Now when I hit Command-R you can seewe have one in light mode one in dark mode looking great.The last thing I want to do is take a look at how this view feels in actionwith different progress values and with animation. Since the live view isfully interactive. I'm going to do that by adding a button to step throughdifferent values in 25 percent increments. I notice that the progressview accepted double as an argument to its initializer. So let's wire thatup in our preview.

I'll create a new state variable called Progress and I'll set that to 25percent. I can then pass that in to each of our ProgressViews.And when I hit Command-R the value updates. With that in place we can nowadd our button. I'll create a new method called increment which is justgoing to add 25 percent to our current progress value. And sinceI did promise animation we'll add a with animation block on top of it andlike before drag the closing brace to encompass our incrementing statement.

Now I'll create a new button view inside our VStack and I'll set its actionto the method that we just created. Lastly we'll give our button a labelwhich is just going to be a text view with the message "increment progress".

If I hit Command-R now, you can see we have a new button. And if I tap itwe have a working ProgressView.And that's building a SwiftUI view using Swift Playground's. In summarySwift Playground's has loads of features like color literals, brace draggingand a full suite of keyboard shortcuts that make it easier to edit complexcode. If you're gonna be bringing your work back to Xcode, it usually makessense to start with the Xcode Playground starting point. You can splityour code across multiple source files to make it easier to understand.This is especially useful with SwiftUI views where you can put your viewcode in a module and use your main source file for previews. And rememberyou can customize your previews and add interactivity by creating yourown views just for that purpose. Thanks for watching and enjoy the restof the awesome content from WWDC.

2:30 -Set up for SwiftUI

2:46 -Create a simple SwiftUI view

3:12 -Show a SwiftUI live view

4:01 -Create a blue circle

5:06 -Add some padding

5:30 -Create an empty ZStack

5:51 -Add a text view

9:24 -Make a struct public

9:38 -Make a view's body property public

9:45 -Make a view's initializer public

10:12 -Create another SwiftUI view

10:21 -Create a VStack of progress views

10:44 -Add padding to a view

10:51 -Add a system background color to a view

11:19 -Initialize the Preview view

11:35 -Use an environment modifier to preview dark mode

12:12 -Create a state variable for tracking progress

12:18 -Pass the progress to the ProgressView initializer

12:32 -Create a method for incrementing progress

12:40 -Add animation to the increment method

12:52 -Create a button

13:01 -Add a text label to a button

## Code Samples

```swift
import
 SwiftUI

import
 PlaygroundSupport
```

```swift
struct
 
ProgressView
: 
View
 
{
  
  
var
 body: 
some
 
View
 {
    
Text
(
"Hello, world!"
)
  }
  
}
```

```swift
PlaygroundPage
.current.setLiveView(
ProgressView
())
```

```swift
Circle
()
	.stroke(lineWidth: 
25
)
	.foregroundColor(.blue)
```

```swift
ProgressView
().padding(
150
)
```

```swift
ZStack
 { }
```

```swift
Text
(
"25%"
)
```

```swift
public
 
struct
 
ProgressView
: 
View
 
{
```

```swift
public
 
var
 body: 
some
 
View
 {
```

```swift
public
 
init
(
_
 
progress
: 
Double
 
=
 
0.3
)
 {
```

```swift
struct
 
Preview
: 
View
 
{
 
  
var
 body: 
some
 
View
 {
    
// ...

  }
  
}
```

```swift
VStack
(spacing: 
30
) {
  
ProgressView
()
  
ProgressView
()
}
```

```swift
.padding(
100
)
```

```swift
.background(
Color
(
UIColor
.secondarySystemBackground))
```

```swift
Preview
()
```

```swift
.environment(\.colorScheme, .dark)
```

```swift
@State
 
var
 progress 
=
 
0.25
```

```swift
ProgressView
(progress)
```

```swift
func
 
increment
()
 {
  
self
.progress 
+=
 
0.25

}
```

```swift
func
 
increment
()
 {
  withAnimation {
    
self
.progress 
+=
 
0.25

  }
}
```

```swift
Button
(action: increment)
```

```swift
Button
(action: increment) {
  
Text
(
"Increment Progress"
)
}
```

