# Wwdc2020 10220

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Handle interruptions and alerts in UI testsLearn how to anticipate potential interruptions to your app's interface and build smart tests to identify them. UI interruptions often appear indeterminately, typically during onboarding or first launch, which can make them hard to track down. Learn how to understand interruptions, write stronger tests with UI interruption handlers, and manage expected alerts.

To learn more about the latest improvements for testing your app in Xcode, check out “XCTSkip your tests”, “Get your test results faster”, and “Triage test failures with XCTIssue”.ResourcesHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC20Eliminate animation hitches with XCTestGet your test results fasterTriage test failures with XCTIssueWrite tests to failXCTSkip your tests

Learn how to anticipate potential interruptions to your app's interface and build smart tests to identify them. UI interruptions often appear indeterminately, typically during onboarding or first launch, which can make them hard to track down. Learn how to understand interruptions, write stronger tests with UI interruption handlers, and manage expected alerts.

To learn more about the latest improvements for testing your app in Xcode, check out “XCTSkip your tests”, “Get your test results faster”, and “Triage test failures with XCTIssue”.

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Eliminate animation hitches with XCTest

Get your test results faster

Triage test failures with XCTIssue

Write tests to fail

XCTSkip your tests

Search this video…Hello and welcome to WWWDC.Hi everyone. Welcome to handle interruptions and alerts and UI tests.My name is Dennis and I'm a software engineer on the Xcode team. In today'ssession we''l define what a UI interruption is and how to handle interruptionsutilizing interruption handler's. Interruption handlers have been part ofXCTest for many years but it's not always clear when they should be used.In the second half of the session I'll demonstrate how to interact withexpected alerts. For example the ones that appear when the app wants toget access to protected resources such as Bluetooth or location data forthe first time. And lastly we'll talk about how you can work with protectedresources and how you can reset the authorization status so that you cantest these kinds of alerts in a deterministic way.Let's start with what is a UI interruption? A UI interruption is anyelement which unexpectedly blocks access to another element with whicha UI test is trying to interact. In the example on the right you can seea simple recipes app. Imagine there's a UI test that wants to tapone of the recipes to view it. Even though there's a banner at the top,the banner is not considered a UI interruption because the banners UI doesnot cover the tableview row that the UI test is going to tap. Now that we'rein the recipes detail view we make sure that we actually navigated thereby asserting that the UI elements appear as expected. After that we want tonavigate back to the list of recipes to ensure that this part of the navigationworks as well. But now the back button is covered by the banner notification.So to be able to tap the button, the UI test needs to interact with thepanel first. In this case the banner is considered a UI interruption.Interrupting elements are most commonly banners like we've seen in the example, alerts,dialogues or windows, but can be other types as well. The importantthing to remember is that interruptions are unexpected or at least not deterministic.The appearance of an alert in direct response to a test action such asclicking a button is not an interruption.Now that we understand what a UI interruption is let's go ahead and explorehow we can use UI Interruption handlers to handle these interruptions.We've learned that interruptions are unexpected and appear non deterministically.Per that definition, there is no way to handle interruptions efficientlyusing the usual automation APIs. Interruption Handlers are closures thatare invoked by XCTest when an interruption occurs,there can be multipleinterruption handlers registered at any time and the order in which theyare added is decisive of the order in which they are invoked. XCTestkeeps a stack of interruption handlers and invokes them in reverse orderuntil one of them signals that it handled the interruption. You're freeto design these handlers as general or as specific as you wish. Some handlersmay just attempt to find a cancel button and press it. Others might makedecisions based on the UI and contents of the interrupting element.If an interruption handler successfully handled an interruption, it returnstrue and the UI test continues. If it was not able to handle the interruptionit returns false and the next handler On the stack gets invoked. UIinterruption handlers are automatically removed at the end of the testor can be removed manually at any time. At the lowest level in the stackof UI interruption handlers, XCTest provides its own implicit interruption.handler that takes care of the most common interruptions for you. On iOSXCTest handles interrupting elements if they have a cancel button or adefault button. And new in Xcode 12 XCTest also implicitly handlesBanner notifications.On macOS XCTest implicitly handles user permission dialogs by clickingthe "Don't Allow" button and the Bluetooth set up assistant, which is wellknown for interrupting UI test flows especially in scenario where no keyboardis attached. Let's take a look at all this works in action. When I livedin Germany and studied computer science my grandma not only helped me withmy homework for uni she also used to cook for me almost every day. SinceI moved to the US, she's been really worried about my health and wants tomake sure that I eat healthy food. She had this idea of having an app thatlists all her favorite recipes she inherited and collected over the years,so that I could easily cook the good food myself. She's an exemplary programmerand knows that she needs to have tests that validate her apps behavior.Here you can see one of the UI tests she wrote. She told me that this testwould sometimes fail but she has no idea why. I promised her to take alook at this. And sure enough after several rounds of the test I was ableto reproduce this. The underlying issue here is that sometimes the connectionto the server fails and the app cannot update the recipes. In that casethe app displays an alert letting these I know that there was a problemand gives them the opportunity to retry. Now for the purpose of this demoI've shut down the web server so that we can easily reproduce the issue ourselves.As you can see at the top I've already added a UI interruption monitorskeleton to the test set up with error method that we'll complete later.Let us run the tests step by step. First we create and launch the application.Then we try to tap one of the tableview cells, but the alert is in the way.Since we're actually trying to interact with an element, the alert is consideredinterruption and XCTest invokes our interruption handler. In our skeletonimplementation we just returned false indicating that we did not handlethe interruption. This is where XCTest implicit interruption handlingkicks in. Once I step over here, you can see how XCTest presses the cancelbutton to dismiss the alert and tap the cell.Now the test continues.Great. You can see that XCTest handled this interruption for us by clickingthe cancel button. But grandma wants to make sure that these tests usethe latest available data. Suppressing retry here would be the better choice.Let's modify our interruption handler to press the retry button instead.Inside the interruption handler we check if the interrupting element is analert and if it has a retry button. If it has we tap it and returntrue to indicate that we handled the interruption and the test can continue.Let's run the tests one more time. Great. Now our test handles these networkinterruptions by retrying to fetch the latest set of recipes instead ofjust canceling. Now that we know how to handle interruptions let's seehow to best handle alerts that are expected to show up. Unlike interruptionsexpected alerts are often deterministic and the direct result of an actionperformed by the UI test. The majority of alerts are expected and shouldtherefore not be handled as an interruption but as part of your test andshould participate in its validation process. Using standard queries andevents. In the demo the test did not explicitly trigger the alerts appearanceand we don't know beforehand when it will appear. The server will probablyrespond correctly most of the time but not always. That's why we had touse a UI interruption handler. Let's look at a different example to seehow we can interact with expected alerts here. Our test swipes left onone of the recipes to remove it. We know that after deleting a recipe analert shows up asking if you really want to delete that recipe. Since thealert is expected to show up, we use traditional UI element query and waitfor existence APIs. Once it appears on screen we validate that it containsthe text we expect. Lastly we dismissed the alert by confirming the actionand validate that the row does not exist anymore. The expected alertswe've seen so far have all been in our control. This makes it straightforwardto get the app under test in the state we need to validate these scenarios.Protected resources like location, Bluetooth or the microphone are veryprivacy sensitive. And the system needs to make sure that the user explicitlyallowed each app access to these resources before letting the app access them.Once the user interacted with the alert asking for access their decision isstored by the system. In a test, there are two or more distinct branchesthat should be tested. How does the app respond to the user granting permissionsand how does the app respond to the user denying permission. However theuser response is stored as system state so after the first such interactionthe device is no longer in a clean state and it is difficult or impossibleto explore the other branches. For more information about protected resourcesplease watch 'Better Apps through Better Privacy' and 'Your Apps and the Futureof macOS Security', from WWDC 2018. In Xcode 11.4and iOS and tvOS 13.4 and macOS 10.15.4,we introduced API on XCUIApplication to reset the authorizationstatus of Protected Resources. Resetting the authorization status of ProtectedResources makes the app behave like it never asked the user for permission before.This allows you to retest these authorization or initial launch experienceworkflows in a deterministic way. Note that these alerts do not originatefrom your app but from the system. Therefore you need to make sure to adjustyour query's accordingly. Also note that resetting the authorization statusof a protected resource may terminate the app process. This behavior is notexclusive to UI testing though, and also happens when the user changes theauthorization status in Settings while the app is running. Supported resourcesfor all platforms are, for example, Contacts, Calendar, Photos, microphone, cameraand location. On iOS, we also support Keyboard, Network Access, Bluetooth andnew Xcode 12 and iOS 14, Health. On macOS we additionally support researchingthe access to areas directories like the users downloads or desktop folder.Here is an example of what a Test looks like that validates the flow ofaccessing the user's photos for the first time. First we reset the app's authorizationstatus for photos. Resetting the authorization status for photos terminatesthe app process which is why we launched the app after the reset. After thatwe continue with our usual test code verifying that the alert appears afterrequesting access to the protected resource and dismissing the alert. That's it.Let's recap what we talked about in this session.We learned that UI interruptions are unexpected or at least not deterministicUI elements that block access to an element which the UI test needs tointeract with. We covered the UI interruption handlers and when and how touse them and that XCTest provides an implicit interruption handler thatcan handle most interruptions out of the box. We talked about expectedalerts and how they're different from interruptions. And lastly we sawhow I can work with expected alerts that result from the use of protectedresources by using new API in XCTest to thoroughly test the initiallaunch experience of your app. Gram and
I want to thank you for watching.

Hello and welcome to WWWDC.

Hi everyone. Welcome to handle interruptions and alerts and UI tests.My name is Dennis and I'm a software engineer on the Xcode team. In today'ssession we''l define what a UI interruption is and how to handle interruptionsutilizing interruption handler's. Interruption handlers have been part ofXCTest for many years but it's not always clear when they should be used.

In the second half of the session I'll demonstrate how to interact withexpected alerts. For example the ones that appear when the app wants toget access to protected resources such as Bluetooth or location data forthe first time. And lastly we'll talk about how you can work with protectedresources and how you can reset the authorization status so that you cantest these kinds of alerts in a deterministic way.Let's start with what is a UI interruption? A UI interruption is anyelement which unexpectedly blocks access to another element with whicha UI test is trying to interact. In the example on the right you can seea simple recipes app. Imagine there's a UI test that wants to tapone of the recipes to view it. Even though there's a banner at the top,the banner is not considered a UI interruption because the banners UI doesnot cover the tableview row that the UI test is going to tap. Now that we'rein the recipes detail view we make sure that we actually navigated thereby asserting that the UI elements appear as expected. After that we want tonavigate back to the list of recipes to ensure that this part of the navigationworks as well. But now the back button is covered by the banner notification.So to be able to tap the button, the UI test needs to interact with thepanel first. In this case the banner is considered a UI interruption.Interrupting elements are most commonly banners like we've seen in the example, alerts,dialogues or windows, but can be other types as well. The importantthing to remember is that interruptions are unexpected or at least not deterministic.The appearance of an alert in direct response to a test action such asclicking a button is not an interruption.Now that we understand what a UI interruption is let's go ahead and explorehow we can use UI Interruption handlers to handle these interruptions.We've learned that interruptions are unexpected and appear non deterministically.Per that definition, there is no way to handle interruptions efficientlyusing the usual automation APIs. Interruption Handlers are closures thatare invoked by XCTest when an interruption occurs,there can be multipleinterruption handlers registered at any time and the order in which theyare added is decisive of the order in which they are invoked. XCTestkeeps a stack of interruption handlers and invokes them in reverse orderuntil one of them signals that it handled the interruption. You're freeto design these handlers as general or as specific as you wish. Some handlersmay just attempt to find a cancel button and press it. Others might makedecisions based on the UI and contents of the interrupting element.If an interruption handler successfully handled an interruption, it returnstrue and the UI test continues. If it was not able to handle the interruptionit returns false and the next handler On the stack gets invoked. UIinterruption handlers are automatically removed at the end of the testor can be removed manually at any time. At the lowest level in the stackof UI interruption handlers, XCTest provides its own implicit interruption.handler that takes care of the most common interruptions for you. On iOSXCTest handles interrupting elements if they have a cancel button or adefault button. And new in Xcode 12 XCTest also implicitly handlesBanner notifications.

On macOS XCTest implicitly handles user permission dialogs by clickingthe "Don't Allow" button and the Bluetooth set up assistant, which is wellknown for interrupting UI test flows especially in scenario where no keyboardis attached. Let's take a look at all this works in action. When I livedin Germany and studied computer science my grandma not only helped me withmy homework for uni she also used to cook for me almost every day. SinceI moved to the US, she's been really worried about my health and wants tomake sure that I eat healthy food. She had this idea of having an app thatlists all her favorite recipes she inherited and collected over the years,so that I could easily cook the good food myself. She's an exemplary programmerand knows that she needs to have tests that validate her apps behavior.Here you can see one of the UI tests she wrote. She told me that this testwould sometimes fail but she has no idea why. I promised her to take alook at this. And sure enough after several rounds of the test I was ableto reproduce this. The underlying issue here is that sometimes the connectionto the server fails and the app cannot update the recipes. In that casethe app displays an alert letting these I know that there was a problemand gives them the opportunity to retry. Now for the purpose of this demoI've shut down the web server so that we can easily reproduce the issue ourselves.As you can see at the top I've already added a UI interruption monitorskeleton to the test set up with error method that we'll complete later.Let us run the tests step by step. First we create and launch the application.

Then we try to tap one of the tableview cells, but the alert is in the way.Since we're actually trying to interact with an element, the alert is consideredinterruption and XCTest invokes our interruption handler. In our skeletonimplementation we just returned false indicating that we did not handlethe interruption. This is where XCTest implicit interruption handlingkicks in. Once I step over here, you can see how XCTest presses the cancelbutton to dismiss the alert and tap the cell.

Now the test continues.

Great. You can see that XCTest handled this interruption for us by clickingthe cancel button. But grandma wants to make sure that these tests usethe latest available data. Suppressing retry here would be the better choice.Let's modify our interruption handler to press the retry button instead.

Inside the interruption handler we check if the interrupting element is analert and if it has a retry button. If it has we tap it and returntrue to indicate that we handled the interruption and the test can continue.Let's run the tests one more time. Great. Now our test handles these networkinterruptions by retrying to fetch the latest set of recipes instead ofjust canceling. Now that we know how to handle interruptions let's seehow to best handle alerts that are expected to show up. Unlike interruptionsexpected alerts are often deterministic and the direct result of an actionperformed by the UI test. The majority of alerts are expected and shouldtherefore not be handled as an interruption but as part of your test andshould participate in its validation process. Using standard queries andevents. In the demo the test did not explicitly trigger the alerts appearanceand we don't know beforehand when it will appear. The server will probablyrespond correctly most of the time but not always. That's why we had touse a UI interruption handler. Let's look at a different example to seehow we can interact with expected alerts here. Our test swipes left onone of the recipes to remove it. We know that after deleting a recipe analert shows up asking if you really want to delete that recipe. Since thealert is expected to show up, we use traditional UI element query and waitfor existence APIs. Once it appears on screen we validate that it containsthe text we expect. Lastly we dismissed the alert by confirming the actionand validate that the row does not exist anymore. The expected alertswe've seen so far have all been in our control. This makes it straightforwardto get the app under test in the state we need to validate these scenarios.Protected resources like location, Bluetooth or the microphone are veryprivacy sensitive. And the system needs to make sure that the user explicitlyallowed each app access to these resources before letting the app access them.Once the user interacted with the alert asking for access their decision isstored by the system. In a test, there are two or more distinct branchesthat should be tested. How does the app respond to the user granting permissionsand how does the app respond to the user denying permission. However theuser response is stored as system state so after the first such interactionthe device is no longer in a clean state and it is difficult or impossibleto explore the other branches. For more information about protected resourcesplease watch 'Better Apps through Better Privacy' and 'Your Apps and the Futureof macOS Security', from WWDC 2018. In Xcode 11.4and iOS and tvOS 13.4 and macOS 10.15.4,we introduced API on XCUIApplication to reset the authorizationstatus of Protected Resources. Resetting the authorization status of ProtectedResources makes the app behave like it never asked the user for permission before.This allows you to retest these authorization or initial launch experienceworkflows in a deterministic way. Note that these alerts do not originatefrom your app but from the system. Therefore you need to make sure to adjustyour query's accordingly. Also note that resetting the authorization statusof a protected resource may terminate the app process. This behavior is notexclusive to UI testing though, and also happens when the user changes theauthorization status in Settings while the app is running. Supported resourcesfor all platforms are, for example, Contacts, Calendar, Photos, microphone, cameraand location. On iOS, we also support Keyboard, Network Access, Bluetooth andnew Xcode 12 and iOS 14, Health. On macOS we additionally support researchingthe access to areas directories like the users downloads or desktop folder.Here is an example of what a Test looks like that validates the flow ofaccessing the user's photos for the first time. First we reset the app's authorizationstatus for photos. Resetting the authorization status for photos terminatesthe app process which is why we launched the app after the reset. After thatwe continue with our usual test code verifying that the alert appears afterrequesting access to the protected resource and dismissing the alert. That's it.Let's recap what we talked about in this session.We learned that UI interruptions are unexpected or at least not deterministicUI elements that block access to an element which the UI test needs tointeract with. We covered the UI interruption handlers and when and how touse them and that XCTest provides an implicit interruption handler thatcan handle most interruptions out of the box. We talked about expectedalerts and how they're different from interruptions. And lastly we sawhow I can work with expected alerts that result from the use of protectedresources by using new API in XCTest to thoroughly test the initiallaunch experience of your app. Gram and
I want to thank you for watching.

5:04 -Interruption Handler Skeleton

5:16 -UI Test Method Body

6:20 -Modified Interruption Handler

7:37 -Handle Expected Alerts

10:29 -Reset the Authorization Status of Protected Resources

## Code Samples

```swift
addUIInterruptionMonitor(withDescription: 
"Handle recipe update failures"
) { element -> 
Bool
 
in

    
// 
TODO:
 Use this handler to retry the update action

    
return
 
false

}
```

```swift
func
 
testRecipeDetailsNavigation
()
 
throws
 {

    
let
 app 
=
 
XCUIApplication
()
    app.launch()

    
let
 pancakeRecipe 
=
 app.cells.staticTexts[
"Fluffy Pancakes"
].firstMatch
    pancakeRecipe.tap()

    
// In the detail view

    
let
 detailTitle 
=
 app.navigationBars.staticTexts[
"Fluffy Pancakes"
].firstMatch
    
XCTAssert
(detailTitle.waitForExistence(timeout: 
30
))

    
let
 expectedImage 
=
 app.images[
"Fluffy Pancakes Image"
].firstMatch
    
XCTAssert
(expectedImage.exists)

    
let
 ingredientsTitle 
=
 app.staticTexts[
"Ingredients Title"
].firstMatch
    
XCTAssert
(ingredientsTitle.exists)

    
let
 ingredientsContent 
=
 app.textViews[
"Ingredients Content"
].firstMatch
    
XCTAssert
(ingredientsContent.exists)
    
XCTAssert
((ingredientsContent.value 
as!
 
String
).count 
>
 
0
)

    
let
 instructionsTitle 
=
 app.staticTexts[
"Instructions Title"
].firstMatch
    
XCTAssert
(instructionsTitle.exists)

    
let
 instructionsTextView 
=
 app.textViews[
"Instructions Content"
].firstMatch
    
XCTAssert
(instructionsTextView.exists)
    
XCTAssert
((instructionsTextView.value 
as!
 
String
).count 
>
 
0
)

    
// Make sure we received the latest instructions:

    
let
 expectedInstructions 
=
 
"""
                               1. Mix the flour, sugar, baking powder and salt.

                               2. Pour the milk, melted butter and egg into a well in the center and mix.

                               3. Heat a frying pan (don't forget to add a little bit of oil, grandson!), and fry until they're golden.

                               4. Optionally add maple syrup and/or fruits (they're healthy!).
                               """

    
XCTAssertEqual
((instructionsTextView.value 
as!
 
String
), expectedInstructions)

    
// Go back to the list of recipes

    
let
 backButton 
=
 app.navigationBars.buttons[
"Grandma's Recipes"
].firstMatch
    backButton.tap()

    
XCTAssert
(pancakeRecipe.waitForExistence(timeout: 
30
))
}
```

```swift
addUIInterruptionMonitor(withDescription: 
"Handle recipe update failures"
) { element -> 
Bool
 
in

    
let
 retryButton 
=
 element.buttons[
"Retry"
].firstMatch
    
if
 element.elementType 
==
 .alert 
&&
 retryButton.exists {
        retryButton.tap()
        
return
 
true

    } 
else
 {
        
return
 
false

    }
}
```

```swift
func
 
testDeleteRecipe
()
 
throws
 {
    
let
 breadCell 
=
 cell(recipeName: 
"Banana Bread"
)
    deleteCell(breadCell)

    
let
 alert 
=
 app.alerts[
"Delete Recipe"
].firstMatch
    
let
 alertExists 
=
 alert.waitForExistence(timeout: 
30
)
    
XCTAssert
(alertExists, 
"Expected alert to show up"
)

    
let
 description 
=
 
"""
                      Are you sure you want to 
\

                      delete this recipe?
                      """


    
let
 alertDescription 
=
 alert.staticTexts[description]
    
XCTAssert
(alertDescription.exists)

    alert.buttons[
"Delete"
].tap()
    
XCTAssertFalse
(breadCell.exists)
}
```

```swift
func
 
testAddingPhotosFirstTime
()
 
throws
 {
    
let
 app 
=
 
XCUIApplication
()
    app.resetAuthorizationStatus(for: .photos)

    app.launch()

    
// Test code…

}
```

