# Wwdc2020 10634

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Discover search suggestions for Apple TVSearching your tvOS app just got even better. Get ready to explore the new simplified search interface and learn how to integrate it into your app with UISearchController. Support your global audience with the addition of new international keyboards and languages. Discover how to add search suggestions to your interface and update results with suggestions on the fly. And we'll share some of our favorite tips for adding a great search experience to Apple TV.ResourcesHuman Interface Guidelines: Designing for tvOSUISearchControllerHD VideoSD Video

Searching your tvOS app just got even better. Get ready to explore the new simplified search interface and learn how to integrate it into your app with UISearchController. Support your global audience with the addition of new international keyboards and languages. Discover how to add search suggestions to your interface and update results with suggestions on the fly. And we'll share some of our favorite tips for adding a great search experience to Apple TV.

Human Interface Guidelines: Designing for tvOS

UISearchController

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Search this video…Hello and welcome to WWDC.Hi my name is Dale Taylor and I'm an engineer on the tvOS team.Today I'm going to talk to you about Search. In tvOS 14, we've made iteven better. Here's how search looks in our TV app. We've increased the sizeof the text in the search field, so it's easy to see what you've typed.And in many languages we've optimized the keyboard layout to one line. Thatleaves more space for your search results. Some apps like our Music apptake advantage of our new search suggestions feature. These suggestionsallow you to minimize typing and find what you're looking for even faster.If you're already using UISearchController, you get most of what you'veseen here for free. For those of you that aren't, let's review how simpleit is to add to your app. Let me show you. We have a simple tab-based apphere with photos and videos from travel over the years. As a reminder, tvOSapps work best with a NavigationController as the root view controllerthat contains a UITabBarController.Let's head to Xcode and look at adding search UI to our app.First let's add a new view controller to go in our tab bar. We can callit SearchViewController. Then we'll set up some basic functionality.We can configure a tab bar item. We'll use the search system item becausethat's the platform convention for indicating a search tab.Now let's add our SearchController. Since we're adding this is a childViewController, we want to put this in a UI search container view controller.First let's set up some constants to hold our variables. Then we can createinstances of our SearchController and SearchContainerViewController.We want to add that as a child view controller as well and viewDidLoad.To show our search results we'll need a search results controller. We haveone already made named GridViewController with a simple collection viewand an 'items' property. Anything we set on the items property will showup in our collection view. Let's start by defining a constant.Then we can create an instance of this view controller and pass it to ourUISearchController.We'll also want our search controller to scroll along with our collection view,when we scroll through the search results.searchControllerObservedScrollView in viewDidLoad. We'll want to updatethe contents of the results of view controller when our search results change.Let's start by making our view controller conform to UISearchResultsUpdating.Then we can set ourselves as the searchResultsUpdater in viewDidLoad.Then we can handle updates from our search controller and updateSearchResults.We can filter out the data and we can set those results on our search results controller.Finally, we can go to our app delegate and we can add our new view controllerto our tab bar. Let's give it a try.If I swipe over to search you can see what we built. If we try searching now,we can see it filter our search results. Now let's talk about what we cando to make it even better. You may remember that I mentioned search suggestions earlier.Before I show you how easy they are to implement in our sample app, letme tell you a little bit about how to use them. We've added a new classUISearchSuggestionItem. It's a model that represents the search suggestionin the UI. It supports an image, text and a description for accessibility.To display these you just assign them to the new searchSuggestions propertyon your UISearchController. If you have your own object, feel free touse that as well, as long as it conforms to the UISearchSuggestion protocol.Here's an example of how you'd use it. You can just create UISearchSuggestionItemswith the optional properties, and assign an array of suggestions tothe search controller. Now that you know how to add search suggestions to yoursearch controller, how do you make them update dynamically? You'll usethe UISearchResultsUpdating protocol that I mentioned earlier in the demo.You'll recall that this gets assigned to the searchResultsUpdater propertyon UISearchController. In the demo we used this protocol to handletext input updates with updateSearchResultsForSearchController.We used the search term from the search bar to query our data source.We've extended this protocol in tvOS14 to handle search suggestions. When someoneusing the app selects a search suggestion, you can respond to it inupdateSearchResultsForSearchController:sel ectingSearchSuggestion:This is useful because the search suggestion can contain more information thanjust the search term. For instance, you could use the suggestion's imageto differentiate between content types. Now that I've given you a briefoverview of how search suggestions work, let me show you how to add themto our sample project where we integrated search.Our datasource has the capability of giving us suggested search results.Let's start by making our SuggestedEntry conform to UISearchSuggestion.We can define properties for the localizedSuggestion an iconImage.And we'll fill out a description for accessibility as well.You'll notice that for our icon image. We're returning a different imagewhether it's a video or photo - that way we can see that in our suggestionwhen it's on screen. Now we can go back to our searchController and displaythese suggestions in our search UI. All we have to do is assign themto the searchSuggestions property when the input changes. We can fillin our empty parameter for suggestions, and then we can assign the suggestionsto our searchController.If no one's typed anything, we don't need any suggestions, so we'll assignan empty array.Now let's run our app and see how it looks.If we navigate over to the search tab and start typing, we can see the suggestionspopulate as we type. Let's see what happens if I click on a suggestion.Hmm. I clicked on the suggestion for videos named blue, so I shouldn'thave any photos in my search results. No problem, that's an easy fix.Let's head back to our searchController.We can adopt the new method in UISearchResultsUpdating to handle theSearchSuggestion being selected.Then we can check to see if our suggestion was for a video suggestion.If it was, we'll update our search results accordingly.We can navigate back to the search tab, start typing blue and select oursuggestion for blue video. You'll notice that now we only see videos whenselecting that suggestion. That's exactly what we wanted. We've workedhard to make UISearchController as easy to use as possible, but hereare a few suggestions to help make sure people using your app have thebest experience. Our keyboard is highly adaptable to various languagesand input methods. You should consider this when laying out your search results.Here are a few examples of alternate layouts. For people using IRremotes, we'll display a grid keyboard. While typing, the search results will onlyoccupy some of the screen width, and then they'll slide in to fill the screenwhen focused. When the system language is set to Thai, we use a three linekeyboard layout to provide the best input experience. Keep this in mindwhen sizing search results because not as many will fit on-screen.You should also try to avoid covering the keyboard with your own UI, even inthe borders outside the safe area. It will likely lead to focus issuesand we don't recommend doing it. If you need to differentiate between typesof content in search suggestion items, use symbol images. It's a greatway to present more information in limited space. Our library of SF symbolswill work great for these suggestions. Today we've shown you the improvementswe've made to UISearchController in tvOS 14 and how easy it is to adopt.You saw how you can integrate search suggestions to make searching even faster.If you follow the best practices we've shown you here, your customers willhave a great search experience in your app.
Thanks and enjoy the rest of the conference.

Hello and welcome to WWDC.Hi my name is Dale Taylor and I'm an engineer on the tvOS team.Today I'm going to talk to you about Search. In tvOS 14, we've made iteven better. Here's how search looks in our TV app. We've increased the sizeof the text in the search field, so it's easy to see what you've typed.And in many languages we've optimized the keyboard layout to one line. Thatleaves more space for your search results. Some apps like our Music apptake advantage of our new search suggestions feature. These suggestionsallow you to minimize typing and find what you're looking for even faster.If you're already using UISearchController, you get most of what you'veseen here for free. For those of you that aren't, let's review how simpleit is to add to your app. Let me show you. We have a simple tab-based apphere with photos and videos from travel over the years. As a reminder, tvOSapps work best with a NavigationController as the root view controllerthat contains a UITabBarController.Let's head to Xcode and look at adding search UI to our app.

First let's add a new view controller to go in our tab bar. We can callit SearchViewController. Then we'll set up some basic functionality.

We can configure a tab bar item. We'll use the search system item becausethat's the platform convention for indicating a search tab.Now let's add our SearchController. Since we're adding this is a childViewController, we want to put this in a UI search container view controller.First let's set up some constants to hold our variables. Then we can createinstances of our SearchController and SearchContainerViewController.We want to add that as a child view controller as well and viewDidLoad.

To show our search results we'll need a search results controller. We haveone already made named GridViewController with a simple collection viewand an 'items' property. Anything we set on the items property will showup in our collection view. Let's start by defining a constant.

Then we can create an instance of this view controller and pass it to ourUISearchController.

We'll also want our search controller to scroll along with our collection view,when we scroll through the search results.searchControllerObservedScrollView in viewDidLoad. We'll want to updatethe contents of the results of view controller when our search results change.Let's start by making our view controller conform to UISearchResultsUpdating.

Then we can set ourselves as the searchResultsUpdater in viewDidLoad.Then we can handle updates from our search controller and updateSearchResults.

We can filter out the data and we can set those results on our search results controller.Finally, we can go to our app delegate and we can add our new view controllerto our tab bar. Let's give it a try.If I swipe over to search you can see what we built. If we try searching now,we can see it filter our search results. Now let's talk about what we cando to make it even better. You may remember that I mentioned search suggestions earlier.Before I show you how easy they are to implement in our sample app, letme tell you a little bit about how to use them. We've added a new classUISearchSuggestionItem. It's a model that represents the search suggestionin the UI. It supports an image, text and a description for accessibility.To display these you just assign them to the new searchSuggestions propertyon your UISearchController. If you have your own object, feel free touse that as well, as long as it conforms to the UISearchSuggestion protocol.Here's an example of how you'd use it. You can just create UISearchSuggestionItemswith the optional properties, and assign an array of suggestions tothe search controller. Now that you know how to add search suggestions to yoursearch controller, how do you make them update dynamically? You'll usethe UISearchResultsUpdating protocol that I mentioned earlier in the demo.You'll recall that this gets assigned to the searchResultsUpdater propertyon UISearchController. In the demo we used this protocol to handletext input updates with updateSearchResultsForSearchController.We used the search term from the search bar to query our data source.We've extended this protocol in tvOS14 to handle search suggestions. When someoneusing the app selects a search suggestion, you can respond to it inupdateSearchResultsForSearchController:sel ectingSearchSuggestion:This is useful because the search suggestion can contain more information thanjust the search term. For instance, you could use the suggestion's imageto differentiate between content types. Now that I've given you a briefoverview of how search suggestions work, let me show you how to add themto our sample project where we integrated search.Our datasource has the capability of giving us suggested search results.Let's start by making our SuggestedEntry conform to UISearchSuggestion.

We can define properties for the localizedSuggestion an iconImage.And we'll fill out a description for accessibility as well.

You'll notice that for our icon image. We're returning a different imagewhether it's a video or photo - that way we can see that in our suggestionwhen it's on screen. Now we can go back to our searchController and displaythese suggestions in our search UI. All we have to do is assign themto the searchSuggestions property when the input changes. We can fillin our empty parameter for suggestions, and then we can assign the suggestionsto our searchController.

If no one's typed anything, we don't need any suggestions, so we'll assignan empty array.

Now let's run our app and see how it looks.

If we navigate over to the search tab and start typing, we can see the suggestionspopulate as we type. Let's see what happens if I click on a suggestion.Hmm. I clicked on the suggestion for videos named blue, so I shouldn'thave any photos in my search results. No problem, that's an easy fix.Let's head back to our searchController.We can adopt the new method in UISearchResultsUpdating to handle theSearchSuggestion being selected.

Then we can check to see if our suggestion was for a video suggestion.

If it was, we'll update our search results accordingly.

We can navigate back to the search tab, start typing blue and select oursuggestion for blue video. You'll notice that now we only see videos whenselecting that suggestion. That's exactly what we wanted. We've workedhard to make UISearchController as easy to use as possible, but hereare a few suggestions to help make sure people using your app have thebest experience. Our keyboard is highly adaptable to various languagesand input methods. You should consider this when laying out your search results.Here are a few examples of alternate layouts. For people using IRremotes, we'll display a grid keyboard. While typing, the search results will onlyoccupy some of the screen width, and then they'll slide in to fill the screenwhen focused. When the system language is set to Thai, we use a three linekeyboard layout to provide the best input experience. Keep this in mindwhen sizing search results because not as many will fit on-screen.You should also try to avoid covering the keyboard with your own UI, even inthe borders outside the safe area. It will likely lead to focus issuesand we don't recommend doing it. If you need to differentiate between typesof content in search suggestion items, use symbol images. It's a greatway to present more information in limited space. Our library of SF symbolswill work great for these suggestions. Today we've shown you the improvementswe've made to UISearchController in tvOS 14 and how easy it is to adopt.You saw how you can integrate search suggestions to make searching even faster.If you follow the best practices we've shown you here, your customers willhave a great search experience in your app.
Thanks and enjoy the rest of the conference.

1:40 -SearchViewController init

1:51 -Search Tab Bar Item

2:05 -SearchController and SearchContainerViewController Definition

2:11 -SearchController and SearchContainerViewController Initialization

2:16 -viewDidLoad - Add Child View Controller

3:17 -Set searchControllerObservedScrollView

3:43 -Assign searchResultsUpdater

4:00 -Implement updateSearchResults

4:16 -Create Instance of SearchViewController

5:30 -UISearchSuggestionItem Example

7:05 -Implement UISearchSuggestion Properties

7:20 -Implement Accessibility Description

9:01 -Add new UISearchResultsUpdating

9:13 -Inspect Suggestion

9:21 -Filter Results

## Code Samples

```swift
private
 
let
 appData: 
AppData



init
(
appData
: 
AppData
)
 {
    
self
.appData 
=
 appData
    
    
super
.
init
(nibName: 
nil
, bundle: 
nil
)
}


required
 
init?
(
coder
: 
NSCoder
)
 {
    
fatalError
(
"init(coder:) has not been implemented"
)
}
```

```swift
// use the system standard search tab bar item

tabBarItem 
=
 
UITabBarItem
(tabBarSystemItem: 
UITabBarItem
.
SystemItem
.search, tag: 
0
)
```

```swift
private
 
let
 searchController: 
UISearchController


private
 
let
 searchContainerViewController: 
UISearchContainerViewController
```

```swift
self
.searchController 
=
 
UISearchController
(searchResultsController: 
self
.searchResultsController)

self
.searchContainerViewController 
=
 
UISearchContainerViewController
(searchController: searchController)
```

```swift
override
 
func
 
viewDidLoad
()
 {
    addChild(searchContainerViewController)
    
    searchContainerViewController.view.frame 
=
 view.bounds
    view.addSubview(searchContainerViewController.view)
    searchContainerViewController.didMove(toParent: 
self
)
}
```

```swift
// scroll search controller allong with results collection view

searchController.searchControllerObservedScrollView 
=
 searchResultsController.collectionView
```

```swift
searchController.searchResultsUpdater 
=
 
self
```

```swift
func
 
updateSearchResults
(
for
 
searchController
: 
UISearchController
)
 {
    
if
 
let
 searchText 
=
 searchController.searchBar.text {
        
// get search results for 'searchText' from data source

        
let
 (results, 
_
) 
=
 appData.searchResults(seachTerm: searchText, includePhotos: 
true
, includeVideos: 
true
)
        
        searchResultsController.items 
=
 results
    } 
else
 {
        
// no search text, show unfiltered results

        searchResultsController.items 
=
 appData.allEntries
    }
}
```

```swift
let
 searchViewController 
=
  
SearchViewController
(appData: appData)
```

```swift
let
 suggestion1 
=
 
UISearchSuggestionItem
(localizedSuggestion: 
"Result1"
, localizedDescription: 
"Result1"
, iconImage: 
nil
)

let
 suggestion2 
=
 
UISearchSuggestionItem
(localizedSuggestion: 
"Result2"
, localizedDescription: 
"Result2"
, iconImage: 
nil
)

searchController.searchSuggestions 
=
 [suggestion1, suggestion 
2
]
```

```swift
var
 localizedSuggestion: 
String
? {
    
return
 
self
.name
}


var
 iconImage: 
UIImage
? {
    
return
 
self
.isVideo 
?
 
UIImage
(systemName: 
"video"
) : 
UIImage
(systemName: 
"photo"
)
}
```

```swift
var
 localizedDescription: 
String
? {
    
if
 (
self
.isVideo) {
        
return
 
String
.localizedStringWithFormat(
NSLocalizedString
(
"%@ - Video"
, comment: 
""
), 
self
.name)
    }
    
return
 
String
.localizedStringWithFormat(
NSLocalizedString
(
"%@ - Photo"
, comment: 
""
), 
self
.name)
}
```

```swift
func
 
updateSearchResults
(
for
 
searchController
: 
UISearchController
, 
selecting
 
searchSuggestion
: 
UISearchSuggestion
)
 {
    
if
 
let
 searchText 
=
 searchController.searchBar.text {
        
var
 includePhotos 
=
 
true
;
        
var
 includeVideos 
=
 
true
;
        
        
    }
}
```

```swift
// check if the suggestion is for a photo or video


if
 
let
 suggestedEntry 
=
 searchSuggestion 
as?
 
SuggestedEntry
 {
    includeVideos 
=
 suggestedEntry.isVideo
    includePhotos 
=
 
!
includeVideos
}
```

```swift
// filter the results by to include photos, videos, or both


let
 (results, 
_
) 
=
 appData.searchResults(seachTerm: searchText, includePhotos: includePhotos, includeVideos: includeVideos)
            
searchResultsController.items 
=
 results
```

