# Wwdc2020 10103

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Design great widgetsWidgets elevate timely information from your app to primary locations on iPhone, iPad and Mac. Discover the keys to designing glanceable widgets, developing a strong widget idea, and clearly communicating with content, color, sizing, layout, and typography.

If you'd like to learn more about the technical implementation for adding widgets into your app, check out "Get Started with WidgetKit" and our three-part code-along series.ResourcesBuilding Widgets Using WidgetKit and SwiftUIHuman Interface Guidelines: WidgetsLearn to Make Apps with SwiftUISwiftUIHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC21Principles of great widgetsWWDC20Build SwiftUI views for widgetsMeet WidgetKitWidgets Code-along, part 1: The adventure begins

Widgets elevate timely information from your app to primary locations on iPhone, iPad and Mac. Discover the keys to designing glanceable widgets, developing a strong widget idea, and clearly communicating with content, color, sizing, layout, and typography.

If you'd like to learn more about the technical implementation for adding widgets into your app, check out "Get Started with WidgetKit" and our three-part code-along series.

Building Widgets Using WidgetKit and SwiftUI

Human Interface Guidelines: Widgets

Learn to Make Apps with SwiftUI

SwiftUI

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Principles of great widgets

Build SwiftUI views for widgets

Meet WidgetKit

Widgets Code-along, part 1: The adventure begins

Search this video…Hello and welcome to W.W.D.C. Welcome to Design Great Widgets.My name is Mac and I'm joined later by my colleague Christian and we bothwork on the human interface design team here at Apple. We're really excitedto talk through the process of how you can design amazing widgets for yourown apps. But before we get started let's take a quick look at what's new.In iOS 14 the entire widget experience has been completely redesigned. Atits foundation is an entirely new visual aesthetic, and powerful new capabilities.The information your widget chooses to surface can be more up to date andcontextual than ever and drag and drop editing gives people direct controlover their widgets in an intuitive and flexible way. One of the thingswe're really excited about is that people can now add these new widgetsdirectly onto their home screen pages. This enables an all new way forusers to experience widgets and likewise a whole new set of considerationsto think about as you approach designing them. Another feature we've createdis Smart Stacks. These let you add several different widgets into a singlelocation and quickly flick between the different widgets inside. But whatis really powerful is that smart stacks dynamically change and adapt tohow you use them. Based on your behavior and context, a smart stack willautomatically rotate to show you the most relevant widget at a given time.So the information you're looking for is already there before you evenhave to lift a finger. For example, when I wake up I like to know what theweather is going to be for the day. When I'm on my way to work I alwaysplay some of my favorite recent music. Later, in the afternoon, I often checkhow much traffic there is and how long it might take me to get home.And in the evening I like to catch up and read through some of the top newsstories from the day. These are just some examples from my own widget stack,but the widgets and behaviors of the Smart Stack are different for eachperson based on the way they use their device and the information thatmatters most to them.This was a super quick look at some of what's new but it's important toremember all of these different ways someone can interact with your widgetand we'll revisit certain features more deeply as they pertain to differentsections of the design process. When designing a widgetthere are two main parts of the process to focus on, ideation and creation.In this first section we're going to cover some principles to help guideyour ideas and also look at some of the new features that are importantto consider at this step in the process. Starting with design principles,the new widget system is all about content. To create a great widget youneed to understand what the most useful information and experiences arethat people return to your app for. Three useful principles we've foundto focus on when thinking about ideas is to look for things that are personal,informational and contextual. We want to look for things that are personalbecause they can allow for a deeper emotional connection with a piece ofyour app or an experience that it enables for someone. Widgets providea great way to see a top level overview of information from a variety ofsources on someone's device. Surfacing the right information can save peoplefrom doing commonly repeated actions in your app. People have their deviceswith them throughout the day and there are tons of signals to infer a person's circumstances.Context helps surface the right information at the right moment and allowsfor a better experience that at its best feels like it's magically predictingsomeone's needs and next steps. Let's take a look at how some of theseprinciples informed our decisions and ideas while designing some of ourown widgets. For calendar,just like the app icon, it shows the day of the week and the current date,your next meeting or event was the most important piece of informationto surface from within the app. Glanceable details like the start timeand event location save people a potential step in opening the app to findthis information. If you have a busy schedule with lots of events it collapsessome of the less relevant information and prioritizes the single most importantpiece of information from each event. When your day is almost over andthere's no more events rather than just showing a blank widget when possiblewe instead start telling you about what is coming up next and happeningin your day tomorrow. This is a great example of thinking beyond just thecontext of the current moment and broadening the scope of contextual relevanceby the hour, day, or even week. A more personal detail is the holiday calendarfor the country that you live in. It adds a nice reminder on special holidays.And when it's a contacts birthday we show a present glyph and elevate it atthe top, so right from your home screen you can feel a personal connectionto them during the birthday.The photos widget is a great example of just how personal a widget experiencecan be. We found that the most delightful experience was to surface thebest photos instead of just the most recent ones. In addition to photomemories we also surface featured photos. And another way of taking advantageof context was to show you photo memories from the current dayin years past. In the weather widget, we surface the city name, current temperatureincluding the high and low and what the forecast will be for the rest ofthe day in your current location.Weather is a really great example of how contextual a widget can be.We display unique weather events such as high wind, thunderstorms, and if andwhen it's going to start raining. And if it does we can contextually increasethe resolution of the next hour's forecast. So you can see up to the minutedetail of when there might be a break in the downpour or when it will stop raining.For maps it's useful to be oriented geographically and see what's around you.But we build on top of this base spatial awareness. When you're not athome and you've driven somewhere, we show where your parked car is.And if you have a scheduled event we show how long it will take to get thereand contextualize the map so you see the route you will take and what'son the way. And when you're not at home we show the E.T.A. for how longit will take to get back.You can see how in all of these examples the widgets are very dynamic andinformative, and the contextual details make the experience feel very personaland adaptive to a person's needs. One of the new capabilities is the abilityfor people to edit widgets. This is an important concept to think aboutin the ideation phase because it might change how much information youtry to put into a single widget. Let's take a look at how editing worksfor the weather widget. In iOS 14, your widgets will jiggle just like appsdo in edit mode and you can tap on a widget here to flip it around andsee what it allows for you to edit. Here, the weather widget lets me changewhat location it's displaying the weather conditions for. By defaultit adapts to your current location so that when a person adds a widget theydon't have to do any additional work. If I tap on the location field Iget a list of all my favorite weather cities as well as the ability tosearch for other locations.I'm going to change the location display on this widget to Tokyo and whenthe widget flips back around it's now displaying the weather conditionsand information for that city,but what is really cool is widgets in iOS 14 let you add as many additionalwidgets as you want and edit each one to show a different set of information.Here I'll add a second weather widget and change this one to show San Francisco's conditions.One of the best parts of this feature is that it eliminates the need tocreate complex widget layouts that represent different entities of informationcombined into a single widget and instead lets a person choose how muchinformation they want to see from your app by adding several widgets andediting them to show just what they want to keep track of. Now I can haveboth cities side by side.Most of the new widgets in iOS support editing like this and it's a greatexperience to add and choose different reminders lists, stocks, notes andworld clocks as shown here. This is one of the main use cases of configuration,but there can be others too. Consider what options you could offer to peoplethat would maximize the utility and flexibility that people might get outof your widget. Another thing to consider in the ideation process is decidingon if you should offer multiple widgets. For stocks, we had two differentideas: to offer a widget that shows a glanceable compact summary of yourwatchlist information but also the ability to add a single stock symbolas a separate widget to keep track of it at a higher resolution just likeweather did for cities in the previous example. Several other apps iniOS 14 offer multiple widgets, including news which lets you follow topnews from a specific topic and notes that lets you pin a favorite noteor add a shared note folder. Now that we've taken you through some importantprinciples and considerations to think through when coming up with ideasfor your widgets, in the next part, Christian is going to talk through theprocess of how to take these ideas and form them into beautiful widgetsthat express all that your app has to offer in an elegant and consistent way.Thanks Mac! My name's Christian and I'm excited to take you through howto make your widgets come to life. Let's jump into the details of creatingyour widget. There's three things we're going to cover as part of creation,the first is sizes and interactions. The new system supports three sizesthat you can design with: small, medium and large. We designed the smallwidget to be all about the most useful piece of content from your app ina size that constrains how much content can actually fit in it. The smallwidget supports a single tap target. Tapping it should deep link to thecontent that's on the widget. Where you deep link to will depend on howyour app is structured. Let's look at some examples. For our small Calendar widget,since the widget is always showing what event is coming up next, we thoughtit made the most sense to bring you to the latest event in the app's Day View.When you tap on the widget, the Day View scrolls to the latest event and givesyou a nice glimpse of the rest of your day around it. For our small Newswidget, since it previews a rich news story that you might be interestedin reading, tapping it brings you directly to that news story and the app.Our medium and large widgets are familiar shapes. Both sizes fit more contentand support multiple tap targets. Tapping a piece of content in a mediumor large widget should also deep link you to the displayed content that'son the widget, like here in this News example. Tapping either article bringsyou directly to the News story you tapped on. There's three different tapstyles supported in the widget system: Fill style is best for when you'redeep linking into a single piece of content. Every small widget uses fillstyle since it only supports one tap target. Cell style is best for whenyou're selecting a piece of content in a widget that lives in its own shape,like here in our Files widget. And content style is great for when you'reselecting a piece of content that lives un-contained in a widget. Next isall about Content and Personality. The most important part about makingyour widget come to life is what lives in it. You should think about contentand personality together when you're designing your widget. Ask yourselfquestions like "What are people looking for when they launch my app?".Also find distinct items of information that people find useful in your app.Let's look at a few examples of thinking about content and personalitytogether. When designing our widget set, we looked at finding personalitythrough how our apps look. For Weather, we used the familiar weather conditionbackground, as well as the iconography from the app. For News, we took inspirationfrom the rich story images that you see in news stories. And for Calendar,we took inspiration from its simplistic look and familiar red tint color,focusing all on what events are coming up next. Another approach for findingpersonality is taking inspiration from your app icon. Like Notes, where wetook on the icons notepad illustration style. Podcasts, where we use theicon's purple gradient. And Tips where we use the icons yellow gradient.When it comes to laying out content in your widget, there were two patternswe found when designing our widget set. The first is a layout that expandsacross all three sizes, like Weather, where we add additional informationacross each size. The second is a layout that is completely unique acrosssizes, like News here. The small widget prioritizes rich content that fillsup the whole space, while the medium widget focuses on showing more news stories.When you're designing for each size make sure not to scale up your smallerwidget into your larger widget. Think about the information you're workingwith and what makes the most sense for each size. For the large ScreenTime widget, since we had more useful information that we could include andmore space, we increased the size of the chart and also included categoryand app details. If you don't have more information to show in your largersizes though, it's fine to only support specific sizes of your idea. Allsizes for an idea aren't required. You might come up with an idea likethese examples here where you want to pack a summary of information ina small widget. We recommend only including a max of four pieces of informationin the small widget size. Now let's go into some more detail about widget patterns.As we designed our widgets, there were several common layout patterns that emerged.Here they are across the different small, medium and large sizes.There are mix of single item and denser multi-item summary layouts. These patternsserve as a helpful starting place and a good way to try out an idea in aformat that already works well. When designing your own custom layouts,follow the default sixteen point layout margins across all sizes to makesure the content in your widget feels consistent when it's place next toother widgets. For layouts with graphical shapes like circles and insetplatters use tighter eleven point margins across all sizes. Shape cornersthat sit close to the edges of your widget should appear concentric withthe widgets corner radius. Since the widgets corner radius changes acrossdifferent device sizes, we provide a Swift UI container that you can assignto shapes in your widget that will make them concentric with the widgetscorner radius without needing to manually specify corner radius values.For type. You should use SF Pro or other variants of San Francisco thatare available like SF Mono and SF Pro Rounded. If a custom font isimportant to how your widget represents its brand or personality make sureit's applied in a way so that your widget still feels at home alongsideother widgets. A widget should look great in both light and dark appearancemodes. For Calendar, the whole widget changes between light and dark appearancesjust like its app does. For Podcasts, since the whole background is a gradientit already works nicely in both modes and for Notes, it has a mix of boldcolors and white so we adopt the note contents for the darkened appearancemode to reflect how the note appears in the app. Every widget must providea placeholder which is shown when the system has no way of displaying yourwidget's data. You should show the base graphical elements in this stateand block in areas of text where your information is shown in the layout.This way, when the system goes from place holder to the proper data thecontent can replace the static elements without having the layout or colorshift around. The last thing we want to go over are a handful of tips tokeep in mind when you're designing your widgets. You should only use alogo in your widget if your app is an aggregator of content from differentsources like these examples here. To keep this treatment consistent acrossdifferent widgets, your logo should always sit in the top right corner.Avoid using word marks in the space and anywhere else in your widget.Another thing to avoid is putting your app icon in your widget. Also avoid puttingyour app name in your widget as it will feel redundant with the app labelthat already appears underneath of it on the home screen. Don't put textthat instructs a user or talks to them, instead, if you feel there's somethingimportant to communicate do it in a graphical way. When displaying chronologicalinformation on a Widget, don't use language like "last updated" or "last checked".We've talked through where to start with your idea, how you should surfacethe most useful information from your app and all the details about howto bring your ideas to life. We're really excited to see what experiencesyou create with the new
widget system in iOS 14.

Hello and welcome to W.W.D.C. Welcome to Design Great Widgets.My name is Mac and I'm joined later by my colleague Christian and we bothwork on the human interface design team here at Apple. We're really excitedto talk through the process of how you can design amazing widgets for yourown apps. But before we get started let's take a quick look at what's new.

In iOS 14 the entire widget experience has been completely redesigned. Atits foundation is an entirely new visual aesthetic, and powerful new capabilities.The information your widget chooses to surface can be more up to date andcontextual than ever and drag and drop editing gives people direct controlover their widgets in an intuitive and flexible way. One of the thingswe're really excited about is that people can now add these new widgetsdirectly onto their home screen pages. This enables an all new way forusers to experience widgets and likewise a whole new set of considerationsto think about as you approach designing them. Another feature we've createdis Smart Stacks. These let you add several different widgets into a singlelocation and quickly flick between the different widgets inside. But whatis really powerful is that smart stacks dynamically change and adapt tohow you use them. Based on your behavior and context, a smart stack willautomatically rotate to show you the most relevant widget at a given time.So the information you're looking for is already there before you evenhave to lift a finger. For example, when I wake up I like to know what theweather is going to be for the day. When I'm on my way to work I alwaysplay some of my favorite recent music. Later, in the afternoon, I often checkhow much traffic there is and how long it might take me to get home.And in the evening I like to catch up and read through some of the top newsstories from the day. These are just some examples from my own widget stack,but the widgets and behaviors of the Smart Stack are different for eachperson based on the way they use their device and the information thatmatters most to them.This was a super quick look at some of what's new but it's important toremember all of these different ways someone can interact with your widgetand we'll revisit certain features more deeply as they pertain to differentsections of the design process. When designing a widgetthere are two main parts of the process to focus on, ideation and creation.

In this first section we're going to cover some principles to help guideyour ideas and also look at some of the new features that are importantto consider at this step in the process. Starting with design principles,the new widget system is all about content. To create a great widget youneed to understand what the most useful information and experiences arethat people return to your app for. Three useful principles we've foundto focus on when thinking about ideas is to look for things that are personal,informational and contextual. We want to look for things that are personalbecause they can allow for a deeper emotional connection with a piece ofyour app or an experience that it enables for someone. Widgets providea great way to see a top level overview of information from a variety ofsources on someone's device. Surfacing the right information can save peoplefrom doing commonly repeated actions in your app. People have their deviceswith them throughout the day and there are tons of signals to infer a person's circumstances.Context helps surface the right information at the right moment and allowsfor a better experience that at its best feels like it's magically predictingsomeone's needs and next steps. Let's take a look at how some of theseprinciples informed our decisions and ideas while designing some of ourown widgets. For calendar,just like the app icon, it shows the day of the week and the current date,your next meeting or event was the most important piece of informationto surface from within the app. Glanceable details like the start timeand event location save people a potential step in opening the app to findthis information. If you have a busy schedule with lots of events it collapsessome of the less relevant information and prioritizes the single most importantpiece of information from each event. When your day is almost over andthere's no more events rather than just showing a blank widget when possiblewe instead start telling you about what is coming up next and happeningin your day tomorrow. This is a great example of thinking beyond just thecontext of the current moment and broadening the scope of contextual relevanceby the hour, day, or even week. A more personal detail is the holiday calendarfor the country that you live in. It adds a nice reminder on special holidays.And when it's a contacts birthday we show a present glyph and elevate it atthe top, so right from your home screen you can feel a personal connectionto them during the birthday.

The photos widget is a great example of just how personal a widget experiencecan be. We found that the most delightful experience was to surface thebest photos instead of just the most recent ones. In addition to photomemories we also surface featured photos. And another way of taking advantageof context was to show you photo memories from the current dayin years past. In the weather widget, we surface the city name, current temperatureincluding the high and low and what the forecast will be for the rest ofthe day in your current location.

Weather is a really great example of how contextual a widget can be.We display unique weather events such as high wind, thunderstorms, and if andwhen it's going to start raining. And if it does we can contextually increasethe resolution of the next hour's forecast. So you can see up to the minutedetail of when there might be a break in the downpour or when it will stop raining.

For maps it's useful to be oriented geographically and see what's around you.But we build on top of this base spatial awareness. When you're not athome and you've driven somewhere, we show where your parked car is.And if you have a scheduled event we show how long it will take to get thereand contextualize the map so you see the route you will take and what'son the way. And when you're not at home we show the E.T.A. for how longit will take to get back.You can see how in all of these examples the widgets are very dynamic andinformative, and the contextual details make the experience feel very personaland adaptive to a person's needs. One of the new capabilities is the abilityfor people to edit widgets. This is an important concept to think aboutin the ideation phase because it might change how much information youtry to put into a single widget. Let's take a look at how editing worksfor the weather widget. In iOS 14, your widgets will jiggle just like appsdo in edit mode and you can tap on a widget here to flip it around andsee what it allows for you to edit. Here, the weather widget lets me changewhat location it's displaying the weather conditions for. By defaultit adapts to your current location so that when a person adds a widget theydon't have to do any additional work. If I tap on the location field Iget a list of all my favorite weather cities as well as the ability tosearch for other locations.

I'm going to change the location display on this widget to Tokyo and whenthe widget flips back around it's now displaying the weather conditionsand information for that city,but what is really cool is widgets in iOS 14 let you add as many additionalwidgets as you want and edit each one to show a different set of information.Here I'll add a second weather widget and change this one to show San Francisco's conditions.

One of the best parts of this feature is that it eliminates the need tocreate complex widget layouts that represent different entities of informationcombined into a single widget and instead lets a person choose how muchinformation they want to see from your app by adding several widgets andediting them to show just what they want to keep track of. Now I can haveboth cities side by side.Most of the new widgets in iOS support editing like this and it's a greatexperience to add and choose different reminders lists, stocks, notes andworld clocks as shown here. This is one of the main use cases of configuration,but there can be others too. Consider what options you could offer to peoplethat would maximize the utility and flexibility that people might get outof your widget. Another thing to consider in the ideation process is decidingon if you should offer multiple widgets. For stocks, we had two differentideas: to offer a widget that shows a glanceable compact summary of yourwatchlist information but also the ability to add a single stock symbolas a separate widget to keep track of it at a higher resolution just likeweather did for cities in the previous example. Several other apps iniOS 14 offer multiple widgets, including news which lets you follow topnews from a specific topic and notes that lets you pin a favorite noteor add a shared note folder. Now that we've taken you through some importantprinciples and considerations to think through when coming up with ideasfor your widgets, in the next part, Christian is going to talk through theprocess of how to take these ideas and form them into beautiful widgetsthat express all that your app has to offer in an elegant and consistent way.Thanks Mac! My name's Christian and I'm excited to take you through howto make your widgets come to life. Let's jump into the details of creatingyour widget. There's three things we're going to cover as part of creation,the first is sizes and interactions. The new system supports three sizesthat you can design with: small, medium and large. We designed the smallwidget to be all about the most useful piece of content from your app ina size that constrains how much content can actually fit in it. The smallwidget supports a single tap target. Tapping it should deep link to thecontent that's on the widget. Where you deep link to will depend on howyour app is structured. Let's look at some examples. For our small Calendar widget,since the widget is always showing what event is coming up next, we thoughtit made the most sense to bring you to the latest event in the app's Day View.

When you tap on the widget, the Day View scrolls to the latest event and givesyou a nice glimpse of the rest of your day around it. For our small Newswidget, since it previews a rich news story that you might be interestedin reading, tapping it brings you directly to that news story and the app.

Our medium and large widgets are familiar shapes. Both sizes fit more contentand support multiple tap targets. Tapping a piece of content in a mediumor large widget should also deep link you to the displayed content that'son the widget, like here in this News example. Tapping either article bringsyou directly to the News story you tapped on. There's three different tapstyles supported in the widget system: Fill style is best for when you'redeep linking into a single piece of content. Every small widget uses fillstyle since it only supports one tap target. Cell style is best for whenyou're selecting a piece of content in a widget that lives in its own shape,like here in our Files widget. And content style is great for when you'reselecting a piece of content that lives un-contained in a widget. Next isall about Content and Personality. The most important part about makingyour widget come to life is what lives in it. You should think about contentand personality together when you're designing your widget. Ask yourselfquestions like "What are people looking for when they launch my app?".Also find distinct items of information that people find useful in your app.Let's look at a few examples of thinking about content and personalitytogether. When designing our widget set, we looked at finding personalitythrough how our apps look. For Weather, we used the familiar weather conditionbackground, as well as the iconography from the app. For News, we took inspirationfrom the rich story images that you see in news stories. And for Calendar,we took inspiration from its simplistic look and familiar red tint color,focusing all on what events are coming up next. Another approach for findingpersonality is taking inspiration from your app icon. Like Notes, where wetook on the icons notepad illustration style. Podcasts, where we use theicon's purple gradient. And Tips where we use the icons yellow gradient.When it comes to laying out content in your widget, there were two patternswe found when designing our widget set. The first is a layout that expandsacross all three sizes, like Weather, where we add additional informationacross each size. The second is a layout that is completely unique acrosssizes, like News here. The small widget prioritizes rich content that fillsup the whole space, while the medium widget focuses on showing more news stories.

When you're designing for each size make sure not to scale up your smallerwidget into your larger widget. Think about the information you're workingwith and what makes the most sense for each size. For the large ScreenTime widget, since we had more useful information that we could include andmore space, we increased the size of the chart and also included categoryand app details. If you don't have more information to show in your largersizes though, it's fine to only support specific sizes of your idea. Allsizes for an idea aren't required. You might come up with an idea likethese examples here where you want to pack a summary of information ina small widget. We recommend only including a max of four pieces of informationin the small widget size. Now let's go into some more detail about widget patterns.

As we designed our widgets, there were several common layout patterns that emerged.Here they are across the different small, medium and large sizes.There are mix of single item and denser multi-item summary layouts. These patternsserve as a helpful starting place and a good way to try out an idea in aformat that already works well. When designing your own custom layouts,follow the default sixteen point layout margins across all sizes to makesure the content in your widget feels consistent when it's place next toother widgets. For layouts with graphical shapes like circles and insetplatters use tighter eleven point margins across all sizes. Shape cornersthat sit close to the edges of your widget should appear concentric withthe widgets corner radius. Since the widgets corner radius changes acrossdifferent device sizes, we provide a Swift UI container that you can assignto shapes in your widget that will make them concentric with the widgetscorner radius without needing to manually specify corner radius values.

For type. You should use SF Pro or other variants of San Francisco thatare available like SF Mono and SF Pro Rounded. If a custom font isimportant to how your widget represents its brand or personality make sureit's applied in a way so that your widget still feels at home alongsideother widgets. A widget should look great in both light and dark appearancemodes. For Calendar, the whole widget changes between light and dark appearancesjust like its app does. For Podcasts, since the whole background is a gradientit already works nicely in both modes and for Notes, it has a mix of boldcolors and white so we adopt the note contents for the darkened appearancemode to reflect how the note appears in the app. Every widget must providea placeholder which is shown when the system has no way of displaying yourwidget's data. You should show the base graphical elements in this stateand block in areas of text where your information is shown in the layout.

This way, when the system goes from place holder to the proper data thecontent can replace the static elements without having the layout or colorshift around. The last thing we want to go over are a handful of tips tokeep in mind when you're designing your widgets. You should only use alogo in your widget if your app is an aggregator of content from differentsources like these examples here. To keep this treatment consistent acrossdifferent widgets, your logo should always sit in the top right corner.Avoid using word marks in the space and anywhere else in your widget.Another thing to avoid is putting your app icon in your widget. Also avoid puttingyour app name in your widget as it will feel redundant with the app labelthat already appears underneath of it on the home screen. Don't put textthat instructs a user or talks to them, instead, if you feel there's somethingimportant to communicate do it in a graphical way. When displaying chronologicalinformation on a Widget, don't use language like "last updated" or "last checked".

We've talked through where to start with your idea, how you should surfacethe most useful information from your app and all the details about howto bring your ideas to life. We're really excited to see what experiencesyou create with the new
widget system in iOS 14.

## Code Samples

