# Wwdc2020 10217

## Transcript

More Videos

Streaming is available in most browsers,and in the Developer app.

About

Transcript

Code

Explore numerical computing in SwiftMeet Swift Numerics: a new Swift package for computational mathematics. Take a tour of the protocols and types available in the package and find out how you can use them to write generic code. We'll also show you how and when to use the new Float16 type to improve performance and reduce memory usage.

To get the most out of this session, you should have some familiarity with mathematics like logarithmic functions and real and imaginary numbers. You should also be familiar with generic programming in Swift. For more background, watch “Swift Generics (Expanded)” from WWDC18.ResourcesFloat16Numeric ProtocolsSwift Numerics on GitHubHD VideoSD VideoRelated VideosWWDC21Meet the Swift Algorithms and Collections packagesWhat‘s new in SwiftWWDC20What's new in Swift

Meet Swift Numerics: a new Swift package for computational mathematics. Take a tour of the protocols and types available in the package and find out how you can use them to write generic code. We'll also show you how and when to use the new Float16 type to improve performance and reduce memory usage.

To get the most out of this session, you should have some familiarity with mathematics like logarithmic functions and real and imaginary numbers. You should also be familiar with generic programming in Swift. For more background, watch “Swift Generics (Expanded)” from WWDC18.

Float16

Numeric Protocols

Swift Numerics on GitHub

HD VideoSD Video

HD Video

SD Video

Meet the Swift Algorithms and Collections packages

What‘s new in Swift

What's new in Swift

Search this video…Hello and welcome to WWDC.Hello and welcome to "Explore Numerical Computing in Swift." My nameis Tim Kientzle. I'm with the Swift Runtime team and I'd like to talk to youabout recent improvements to floating-point numerics support in Swift.I'll start by introducing the Swift Numerics package. Among other features,this package includes a protocol called "Real" and a fully functional Complexnumber type. Then I'll describe the new high performance Float16 typethat we've added to the Swift core language and standard libraries.Let's start, by looking at the Numerics Package as a whole. The Swift Numericspackage is an open-source Swift development effort hosted on github.com.It's designed to make it easy to implement numeric algorithms that workwith any standard floating-point type. It does this by making the standardfloating-point types usable with Swift's generic programming facilities.To see how this works, let's assume you're working on some project whereyou discover you need to use the common "logit" or "log-odds" function fromprobability theory. You start by defining a 'logit' function that takes andreturns a Double. To implement this function, you import the "log" and "log1p"functions from the Darwin module. This code works, but there's one small wrinkle.This is written to only support Double. Someday you might want to use itwith Float or maybe Float80. With a one-liner like this, it's no bigdeal to just make another copy of it. But, what if a new floating-pointtype gets added in the future? How do you handle types like Float80 thatare only available on certain platforms? And of course, if this functionwere hundreds of lines, then duplication would create problems.Someone might correct a bug in one copy but fail to correctly edit the other copy.This could get to be quite a mess. So let's instead try to define 'logit'as a generic function that can work with any floating-point type.Here's a reasonable first attempt. Unfortunately, this won't compile. The problemis that we've told the compiler that this function works for any type.But of course the "log" and "log1p" functions aren't defined for every type.They only make sense for a handful of floating-point types. So we needsome way to constrain the type T to only the types that are actualfloating-point types with actual log functions available. Instead, let's importthe Numerics module. By importing the Numerics module, we get access tothe Real protocol which provides all the necessary support for this kindof programming. Using that, we can define our 'logit' function so it worksfor any fully functional floating-point type. We also need to use the genericforms of 'log' and 'log(onePlus:)' that are exposed by the Numerics module.This implementation of 'logit' works for every standard floating-point type.If new floating-point types get added in the future, this code will supportthem without requiring any changes. This even works for Float80 on theplatforms that support Float80 without you having to figure out the magic conditionals.The key to this is the Real protocol. Let's take a closer look at that.Types that conform to the Real protocol support all the standard floating-pointcapabilities. Real does this by combining several other protocols,as you can see in the definition here. This definition, by the way, is exactlythe one that you can see in the Numerics source code.The FloatingPoint protocol from the standard library is one key component here.Two other protocols, AlgebraicField and RealFunctions, are new protocolsdefined by the Numerics package. But before I dive into details of those,I want to reiterate that the Real protocol is the one you should actually use.I'm going to describe how these other protocols fit together because Ithink it helps to better understand the range of capabilities that Realbrings to the table. And, of course, if you ever need to define a new numerictype, you'll probably want to decompose your implementation along these lines.But for most of you, the Real protocol is the only one you will routinelywork with. With that in mind, let's review the protocols that are alreadypresent in the Swift standard library. The Swift standard library definesa lot of protocols that apply to the standard floating-point types.This diagram shows just a few of the more important ones. For this talk, I'monly interested in three of these: AdditiveArithmetic, SignedNumeric andFloatingPoint. AdditiveArithmetic applies to types that support additionand subtraction. This covers almost anything that can reasonably claimto be some form of "number" and corresponds nicely to what mathematiciansrefer to as an "Algebraic Group."SignedNumeric extends that, with the concept of multiplication.Finally, FloatingPoint adds various notions that are needed for any practical computerfloating-point number implementation, including comparison functions, a wayto decompose numbers into exponent and significand, as well as useful constantslike the largest and smallest value, infinity, pi and so on. The NumericsPackage builds on these core concepts. The first protocol here augmentsSignedNumeric with a notion of division. Mathematicians refer to numbersystems that support all four basic operations as "algebraic fields," whichinspired the name.The ElementaryFunctions protocol specifies a large collection of commonfloating-point functions, including core trig functions as well as logarithms,exponentials, roots and powers.The RealFunctions protocol extends this even further with many less usedfunctions such as gamma and error functions as well as variations of the common trig functions.The Real protocol combines all of these into a single unifying conceptthat neatly defines the common capabilities of the standard floating-point types.Any type that conforms to the Real protocol is a floating-point typethat supports all the standard arithmetic operations. And has a full repertoireof common mathematical functions. Which is how the Numerics package makesthe standard floating-point types more usable than ever.Fundamentally, the Real protocol is a simple concept that is very powerful in practice.It lets you use generic programming techniques to define your floating-pointcode in a way that automatically supports every standard floating-pointtype. And it's built on top of a set of interlocking protocols thatshould make it easy to define new numeric types. Now, let us turn to theComplex number support provided by the Numerics Package. The Complex typein the Swift Numerics package is a fully featured implementation of a standardcomplex number type. To use it, just import that Numerics package into your program.Because the Complex type is generic over the Real protocol, it works forany floating-point type. In this example, the constants 1.0 and 2.0 default to Double,so 'z' here is a 'Complex'. As always, Swift infers the type for you soyou generally can just omit the type annotation. The Complex number typeis useful in itself, but it's also a great example of how the Real protocolenables generic numeric programming. The basic type is defined a lot like this.A complex number has both real and imaginary components and a way to createnew complex numbers from those components. Those components can be anyNumberType that conforms to the Real protocol. To make complex numbersfully functional, of course, we need to define the standard arithmetic operations.Here are the basic addition, subtraction, and multiplication operations as requiredby the SignedNumeric protocol we discussed a little while ago.Complex numbers are often expressed in polar coordinates. That is, in terms of alength and a phase angle. Because the real and imaginary components arefloating-point types that conform to the Real protocol, we automaticallyget everything we need to expose those length and phase properties.The length is defined in terms of the standard hypotenuse function, the phasein terms of the standard arctangent function. Other common trig functionslet us create new complex numbers with a specified length and phase.This complex type is a plain struct holding two floating-point values. As a result,its memory layout precisely matches that of the C and C++ complex number types.So complex numbers in memory look exactly the same in all three languages.You can create a buffer full of complex numbers in Swift and pass a pointerto that buffer to a C or C++ library that expects the corresponding C orC++ complex type. To see how this works, let's look at an example usingAccelerate's implementation of the Basic Linear Algebra Subroutines.The first part of this example just creates an array of 100 Complexvalues using a common Swift idiom. Now we can use the ampersandoperator to pass a pointer to this array directly into the Accelerate API.This particular function accepts an array of Complexs, computesthe Euclidean 2-norm and returns a Double. Especially when porting codefrom C or C++, you may need to be careful when dealing with infinity orNaN values. There have been different styles over the years for how theseshould work. It's not surprising that C and C++ use the same style as each other.After all, their complex number support was standardized at about the same time.Swift, however, uses a slightly different convention that is simpler andsignificantly more performant. To see the difference, here's a basic benchmarkprogram that just performs a bunch of complex multiplications and divisions.With this program, multiplication is about 1.3 times fasterin Swift than in C. Division is almost 4 times faster. And, if you canarrange your work so that you're dividing by a constant, then you'll findthat division in Swift can be over 10 times faster. I hope the previoussections have given you a taste of what we're trying to accomplish withthe Swift Numerics package. This is a work in progress. The package isbeing developed as a community effort on GitHub and there are active discussionsabout where to take it in the future. New features are added regularly.This has recently included improved handling of integer powers and somenew tools for dealing with approximate equality. There are also activediscussions about how to extend the library with support for arbitraryprecision integers, shaped arrays and decimal floating-point. If you wouldlike to participate, please check out the project on github.com or jointhe discussion in the Swift forums. Now, let's turn to the core Swift Languageand standard library and the new Float16 data type. Float16 is an IEEE 754standard floating-point format that is new to Swift. It's alreadyavailable in Swift on ARM-based platforms and we're working with Intelto finalize the correct calling convention before we landed this on x86.Float16 is in every way a standard and fully supported floating-point type.It conforms to the core protocols from the standard library, including thingslike SIMDScalar. It conforms to the Real protocol that I discussed earlierin this talk. As you recall, this means that it supports all of the standardfloating-point operations and functions. So our earlier diagram that showsthe types that conform to Real now has a fourth type. In the months sinceSwift Numerics was released, there are already a number of projects usingthe Real protocol to write algorithms that work across all standardfloating-point types. Without any source code changes at all, those projects alreadywork with Float16. Like any actual numeric format, there are tradeoffsto using Float16 instead of some other type. Most of those tradeoffs relatesimply to its size. Since it's a smaller data type, you can fit more ofthem in a SIMD register or in a page of memory, which directly translatesinto improved performance. However, as a smaller data type, it also has amore limited precision and range. Let's take a careful look at that.As the name suggests, a Float16 takes just 16 bits or 2 bytes as opposedto 4 bytes for a single precision Float or 8 bytes for a double-precision value.The smallest value it can represent is around 10 to the minus 8, which is generallynot a concern. However, the maximum value that a Float16 can representis just a little more than 65,000. This can be a problem formany applications and it's something you should be careful with when translatingcode that was originally implemented for Double or Float to work with Float16.On the hardware side, Float16 is already well supported. Apple GPUs haveused this for a long time and Apple CPUs have direct support beginningwith A11 Bionic. On older CPUs, we support Float16 by simulating theoperations using Float. The results are exactly the same, only a little slower.As I mentioned before, on hardware that does fully support Float16, youcan fit twice as many values into the same SIMD registers, which generallytranslates into a doubling of performance. To see how that plays out in practice,let's look at a simple benchmark that compares a BNNS convolution computedin single-precision Float, where we get about 49 giga-flops toone computed with Float16 which achieves 119 giga-flops,even more than twice the performance.This talk has discussed the Swift Numerics package and shown how the Realprotocol provides a way to write floating-point algorithms genericallyso they work with all floating-point types. I've also talked about a newcomplex type that provides full interoperability with C and C++ and finally,I've introduced the new Float16 type that improves our support for highperformance numerics. To get involved, you can visit the Swift Numericsproject on GitHub, take a look at the existing issues and Pull Requeststo understand what work is ongoing and contribute your own ideas to the group.You can also visit the Swift forums at forums.swift.org and look inthe "Related Projects" Category to find discussion specifically about Swift Numerics.I appreciate you joining me for this look at Swift Numerics and I hopeyou enjoy the conference!

Hello and welcome to WWDC.Hello and welcome to "Explore Numerical Computing in Swift." My nameis Tim Kientzle. I'm with the Swift Runtime team and I'd like to talk to youabout recent improvements to floating-point numerics support in Swift.I'll start by introducing the Swift Numerics package. Among other features,this package includes a protocol called "Real" and a fully functional Complexnumber type. Then I'll describe the new high performance Float16 typethat we've added to the Swift core language and standard libraries.Let's start, by looking at the Numerics Package as a whole. The Swift Numericspackage is an open-source Swift development effort hosted on github.com.It's designed to make it easy to implement numeric algorithms that workwith any standard floating-point type. It does this by making the standardfloating-point types usable with Swift's generic programming facilities.

To see how this works, let's assume you're working on some project whereyou discover you need to use the common "logit" or "log-odds" function fromprobability theory. You start by defining a 'logit' function that takes andreturns a Double. To implement this function, you import the "log" and "log1p"functions from the Darwin module. This code works, but there's one small wrinkle.

This is written to only support Double. Someday you might want to use itwith Float or maybe Float80. With a one-liner like this, it's no bigdeal to just make another copy of it. But, what if a new floating-pointtype gets added in the future? How do you handle types like Float80 thatare only available on certain platforms? And of course, if this functionwere hundreds of lines, then duplication would create problems.Someone might correct a bug in one copy but fail to correctly edit the other copy.

This could get to be quite a mess. So let's instead try to define 'logit'as a generic function that can work with any floating-point type.Here's a reasonable first attempt. Unfortunately, this won't compile. The problemis that we've told the compiler that this function works for any type.

But of course the "log" and "log1p" functions aren't defined for every type.They only make sense for a handful of floating-point types. So we needsome way to constrain the type T to only the types that are actualfloating-point types with actual log functions available. Instead, let's importthe Numerics module. By importing the Numerics module, we get access tothe Real protocol which provides all the necessary support for this kindof programming. Using that, we can define our 'logit' function so it worksfor any fully functional floating-point type. We also need to use the genericforms of 'log' and 'log(onePlus:)' that are exposed by the Numerics module.

This implementation of 'logit' works for every standard floating-point type.If new floating-point types get added in the future, this code will supportthem without requiring any changes. This even works for Float80 on theplatforms that support Float80 without you having to figure out the magic conditionals.

The key to this is the Real protocol. Let's take a closer look at that.

Types that conform to the Real protocol support all the standard floating-pointcapabilities. Real does this by combining several other protocols,as you can see in the definition here. This definition, by the way, is exactlythe one that you can see in the Numerics source code.

The FloatingPoint protocol from the standard library is one key component here.

Two other protocols, AlgebraicField and RealFunctions, are new protocolsdefined by the Numerics package. But before I dive into details of those,I want to reiterate that the Real protocol is the one you should actually use.I'm going to describe how these other protocols fit together because Ithink it helps to better understand the range of capabilities that Realbrings to the table. And, of course, if you ever need to define a new numerictype, you'll probably want to decompose your implementation along these lines.But for most of you, the Real protocol is the only one you will routinelywork with. With that in mind, let's review the protocols that are alreadypresent in the Swift standard library. The Swift standard library definesa lot of protocols that apply to the standard floating-point types.This diagram shows just a few of the more important ones. For this talk, I'monly interested in three of these: AdditiveArithmetic, SignedNumeric andFloatingPoint. AdditiveArithmetic applies to types that support additionand subtraction. This covers almost anything that can reasonably claimto be some form of "number" and corresponds nicely to what mathematiciansrefer to as an "Algebraic Group."SignedNumeric extends that, with the concept of multiplication.Finally, FloatingPoint adds various notions that are needed for any practical computerfloating-point number implementation, including comparison functions, a wayto decompose numbers into exponent and significand, as well as useful constantslike the largest and smallest value, infinity, pi and so on. The NumericsPackage builds on these core concepts. The first protocol here augmentsSignedNumeric with a notion of division. Mathematicians refer to numbersystems that support all four basic operations as "algebraic fields," whichinspired the name.

The ElementaryFunctions protocol specifies a large collection of commonfloating-point functions, including core trig functions as well as logarithms,exponentials, roots and powers.

The RealFunctions protocol extends this even further with many less usedfunctions such as gamma and error functions as well as variations of the common trig functions.

The Real protocol combines all of these into a single unifying conceptthat neatly defines the common capabilities of the standard floating-point types.

Any type that conforms to the Real protocol is a floating-point typethat supports all the standard arithmetic operations. And has a full repertoireof common mathematical functions. Which is how the Numerics package makesthe standard floating-point types more usable than ever.Fundamentally, the Real protocol is a simple concept that is very powerful in practice.It lets you use generic programming techniques to define your floating-pointcode in a way that automatically supports every standard floating-pointtype. And it's built on top of a set of interlocking protocols thatshould make it easy to define new numeric types. Now, let us turn to theComplex number support provided by the Numerics Package. The Complex typein the Swift Numerics package is a fully featured implementation of a standardcomplex number type. To use it, just import that Numerics package into your program.

Because the Complex type is generic over the Real protocol, it works forany floating-point type. In this example, the constants 1.0 and 2.0 default to Double,so 'z' here is a 'Complex'. As always, Swift infers the type for you soyou generally can just omit the type annotation. The Complex number typeis useful in itself, but it's also a great example of how the Real protocolenables generic numeric programming. The basic type is defined a lot like this.

A complex number has both real and imaginary components and a way to createnew complex numbers from those components. Those components can be anyNumberType that conforms to the Real protocol. To make complex numbersfully functional, of course, we need to define the standard arithmetic operations.

Here are the basic addition, subtraction, and multiplication operations as requiredby the SignedNumeric protocol we discussed a little while ago.Complex numbers are often expressed in polar coordinates. That is, in terms of alength and a phase angle. Because the real and imaginary components arefloating-point types that conform to the Real protocol, we automaticallyget everything we need to expose those length and phase properties.The length is defined in terms of the standard hypotenuse function, the phasein terms of the standard arctangent function. Other common trig functionslet us create new complex numbers with a specified length and phase.This complex type is a plain struct holding two floating-point values. As a result,its memory layout precisely matches that of the C and C++ complex number types.So complex numbers in memory look exactly the same in all three languages.You can create a buffer full of complex numbers in Swift and pass a pointerto that buffer to a C or C++ library that expects the corresponding C orC++ complex type. To see how this works, let's look at an example usingAccelerate's implementation of the Basic Linear Algebra Subroutines.The first part of this example just creates an array of 100 Complexvalues using a common Swift idiom. Now we can use the ampersandoperator to pass a pointer to this array directly into the Accelerate API.

This particular function accepts an array of Complexs, computesthe Euclidean 2-norm and returns a Double. Especially when porting codefrom C or C++, you may need to be careful when dealing with infinity orNaN values. There have been different styles over the years for how theseshould work. It's not surprising that C and C++ use the same style as each other.After all, their complex number support was standardized at about the same time.

Swift, however, uses a slightly different convention that is simpler andsignificantly more performant. To see the difference, here's a basic benchmarkprogram that just performs a bunch of complex multiplications and divisions.

With this program, multiplication is about 1.3 times fasterin Swift than in C. Division is almost 4 times faster. And, if you canarrange your work so that you're dividing by a constant, then you'll findthat division in Swift can be over 10 times faster. I hope the previoussections have given you a taste of what we're trying to accomplish withthe Swift Numerics package. This is a work in progress. The package isbeing developed as a community effort on GitHub and there are active discussionsabout where to take it in the future. New features are added regularly.This has recently included improved handling of integer powers and somenew tools for dealing with approximate equality. There are also activediscussions about how to extend the library with support for arbitraryprecision integers, shaped arrays and decimal floating-point. If you wouldlike to participate, please check out the project on github.com or jointhe discussion in the Swift forums. Now, let's turn to the core Swift Languageand standard library and the new Float16 data type. Float16 is an IEEE 754standard floating-point format that is new to Swift. It's alreadyavailable in Swift on ARM-based platforms and we're working with Intelto finalize the correct calling convention before we landed this on x86.Float16 is in every way a standard and fully supported floating-point type.It conforms to the core protocols from the standard library, including thingslike SIMDScalar. It conforms to the Real protocol that I discussed earlierin this talk. As you recall, this means that it supports all of the standardfloating-point operations and functions. So our earlier diagram that showsthe types that conform to Real now has a fourth type. In the months sinceSwift Numerics was released, there are already a number of projects usingthe Real protocol to write algorithms that work across all standardfloating-point types. Without any source code changes at all, those projects alreadywork with Float16. Like any actual numeric format, there are tradeoffsto using Float16 instead of some other type. Most of those tradeoffs relatesimply to its size. Since it's a smaller data type, you can fit more ofthem in a SIMD register or in a page of memory, which directly translatesinto improved performance. However, as a smaller data type, it also has amore limited precision and range. Let's take a careful look at that.As the name suggests, a Float16 takes just 16 bits or 2 bytes as opposedto 4 bytes for a single precision Float or 8 bytes for a double-precision value.

The smallest value it can represent is around 10 to the minus 8, which is generallynot a concern. However, the maximum value that a Float16 can representis just a little more than 65,000. This can be a problem formany applications and it's something you should be careful with when translatingcode that was originally implemented for Double or Float to work with Float16.

On the hardware side, Float16 is already well supported. Apple GPUs haveused this for a long time and Apple CPUs have direct support beginningwith A11 Bionic. On older CPUs, we support Float16 by simulating theoperations using Float. The results are exactly the same, only a little slower.

As I mentioned before, on hardware that does fully support Float16, youcan fit twice as many values into the same SIMD registers, which generallytranslates into a doubling of performance. To see how that plays out in practice,let's look at a simple benchmark that compares a BNNS convolution computedin single-precision Float, where we get about 49 giga-flops toone computed with Float16 which achieves 119 giga-flops,even more than twice the performance.

This talk has discussed the Swift Numerics package and shown how the Realprotocol provides a way to write floating-point algorithms genericallyso they work with all floating-point types. I've also talked about a newcomplex type that provides full interoperability with C and C++ and finally,I've introduced the new Float16 type that improves our support for highperformance numerics. To get involved, you can visit the Swift Numericsproject on GitHub, take a look at the existing issues and Pull Requeststo understand what work is ongoing and contribute your own ideas to the group.

You can also visit the Swift forums at forums.swift.org and look inthe "Related Projects" Category to find discussion specifically about Swift Numerics.

I appreciate you joining me for this look at Swift Numerics and I hopeyou enjoy the conference!

1:05 -The log-odds function (Double)

2:33 -The log-odds function (Real)

7:10 -The Complex type

7:38 -The Complex type: Basic definition

8:04 -The Complex type: Standard arithmetic operations

8:19 -The Complex type: Polar coordinates

9:16 -Using Accelerate's Basic Linear Algebra Subroutines

## Code Samples

```swift
import
 Darwin


/// The log-odds function


///


/// https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logit


///


/// - Parameter p:


///   A probability in the range 0...1.


///


/// - Returns:


///   The log of the odds, 'log(p/(1-p))'.


func
 
logit
(
_
 
p
: 
Double
)
 -> 
Double
 {
    log(p) 
-
 log1p(
-
p)
}
```

```swift
import
 Numerics


/// The log-odds function


///


/// https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logit


///


/// - Parameter p:


///   A probability in the range 0...1.


///


/// - Returns:


///   The log of the odds, 'log(p/(1-p))'.


func
 
logit
<
NumberType
: 
Real
>(
_
 
p
: 
NumberType
)
 -> 
NumberType
 {
    .log(p) 
-
 .log(onePlus: 
-
p)
}
```

```swift
import
 Numerics


let
 z 
=
 
Complex
(
1.0
, 
2.0
) 
// z = 1 + 2 i
```

```swift
public
 
struct
 
Complex
<
NumberType
> 
where
 
NumberType
: 
Real
 
{
    
/// The real component

    
public
 
var
 real: 
NumberType

  
    
/// The imaginary component

    
public
 
var
 imaginary: 
NumberType

  
    
/// Construct a complex number with specified real and imaginary parts

    
public
 
init
(
_
 
real
: 
NumberType
, 
_
 
imaginary
: 
NumberType
)
 {
        
self
.real 
=
 real
        
self
.imaginary 
=
 imaginary
    }
}
```

```swift
extension
 
Complex
: 
SignedNumeric
 
{
    
/// The sum of 'z' and 'w'

    
public
 
static
 
func
 
+
(
z
: 
Complex
, 
w
: 
Complex
)
 -> 
Complex
 {
        
return
 
Complex
(z.real 
+
 w.real, z.imaginary 
+
 w.imaginary)
    }

    
/// The difference of 'z' and 'w'

    
public
 
static
 
func
 
-
(
z
: 
Complex
, 
w
: 
Complex
)
 -> 
Complex
 {
        
return
 
Complex
(z.real 
-
 w.real, z.imaginary 
-
 w.imaginary)
    }

    
/// The product of 'z' and 'w'

    
public
 
static
 
func
 
*
(
z
: 
Complex
, 
w
: 
Complex
)
 -> 
Complex
 {
        
return
 
Complex
(z.real 
*
 w.real 
-
 z.imaginary 
*
 w.imaginary,
                       z.real 
*
 w.imaginary 
+
 z.imaginary 
*
 w.real)
    }
}
```

```swift
extension
 
Complex
 
{
    
/// The Euclidean norm (a.k.a. 2-norm) of the number.

    
public
 
var
 length: 
NumberType
 {
        
return
 .hypot(real, imaginary)
    }
  
    
/// The phase (angle, or "argument").

    
///

    
/// Returns the angle (measured above the real axis) in radians.

    
public
 
var
 phase: 
NumberType
 {
        
return
 .atan2(y: imaginary, x: real)
    }
  
    
/// A complex value with specified polar coordinates.

    
public
 
init
(
length
: 
NumberType
, 
phase
: 
NumberType
)
 {
        
self
 
=
 
Complex
(.cos(phase), .sin(phase)).multiplied(by: length)
    }
}
```

```swift
import
 Numerics

import
 Accelerate


/// Array of 100 random Complex<Double> numbers


let
 z 
=
 (
0
 
..<
 
100
).map {
    
Complex
(length: 
1.0
, phase: 
Double
.random(in: 
-
.pi 
...
 .pi))
}


/// Compute the Euclidean norm of z


let
 norm 
=
 cblas_dznrm2(z.count, 
&
z, 
1
)
```

